Note: This story takes place right after LIVING LEGEND.

                       BATTLESTAR ANDROMEDA

There are those who believe that life here began out there, far across the universe, with tribes of humans who may have been the forefathers of the Egyptians, or the Toltecs, or the Mayans. That they may have been the architects of the great pyramids, or the lost civilizations of Lemuria or Atlantis. Some believe that there may yet be brothers and sisters of man who even now fight to survive, somewhere beyond the heavens.

           BATTLESTAR ANDROMEDA II: Legendary Encounter
                           Written by
                            Joe Chin
                  Based on Battlestar Galactica
                           Created by
                         Glen A. Larson

Andrea's JournalIt has been a about half a yahren since leaving our destroyed homes. There have been traces of the Galactica, from viper fragments and Cylon fighter fragments. There was one derelict viper that was recovered, and the uniform, what was left of it, showed a Blue Squadron insignia. It was bad enough to know that a Colonial Warrior died, especially a Blue Squadron warrior. I keep hoping that it was not my nephew, Apollo. It was bad enough that our family has already lost my younger nephew, Zac.

And my brother, from traces back at what was left of his home, I am sure that he thinks that he's lost his wife, too. But- the only optimism in this is that we are heading in the right direction. There was a trace of Galactica activity in the Hitari system...

{Commander Andrea, Captain Zane and Lieutenant Io were inside the home of Vella on Equellus. Vella's son, Puppus, was sitting on Zane's lap as they sat around, talking. "You very much resemble a Colonial warrior who was here a short while ago," she said to Zane.

Puppus looked up at Zane, who interrupted by blurting out, "You look like Captain Apollo."

Everyone laughed.

"He's right, Captain Zane," continued Vella. "You DO look like Captain Apollo. And I don't mean just the uniform. You have his eyes, same color hair, except his hair looks like someone shot him with a projectile that whizzed by the middle of the top of his head."

"Captain Apollo is my cousin," responded Zane.}

Andrea's Journal Continued...and after trading machinery and equipment for extra food and ore; not that we needed the food; but they did need the equipment to help them with their farming, and weaponry for defense against the Cylons, this woman, Vella, and her son, Puppus, decided that she very much wanted to join us. Based on her story, that being the loss of her husband, who was a Colonial warrior, and then her brother, there was no longer anything on Equellus for her. And I understand.

All this death of Colonial warriors is what bothers me, but fortunately for me, and the rest of us, we have not encountered Cylons ever since Cimtar, except for one basestar, which the Andromeda and the Triton Six destroyed before they managed to launch any of their fighters.

Andrea picked up the long frame that was sitting on the table, and stared at it. The frame was a landscape picture of, from left to right, Cadet Zac, Sergeant Starbuck, Lieutenant Apollo, Athena in her blue uniform, Commander Adama, Colonel Andrea, Lieutenant Zane and Sergeant Io, lined up and facing the camera.


The door signal went off.

"Enter!" yelled Andrea.

The door opened, and Ila walked in, seeing Andrea looking at the picture.

"I see the resemblance between you and my daughter, Andrea."

Andrea looked up to see Ila standing there. "Yes, I see it, too. The eyes, the facial features... Well, Athena did inherit SOMETHING good from her father, I imagine."
  The two women laughed.

Ila looked at the casing in the back of the room, to see a swagger stick precariously lying on it. "Andrea, what is that?"

Andrea looked behind her to see what Ila was talking about. Andrea picked it up and handed it to Ila so that she could inspect it. Ila examined it as if she was trying to find a minute flaw in a precious gem.

"You are one of the few people who has touched it, Ila," explained Andrea. "Commander Cain gave it to me when I took command of the Pegasus yahrens ago."

"I remember Adama telling me that when Cain gave his pointer to someone before leaving the Pegasus, it meant that he had his blessing at commanding it."

"Yes," said Andrea. "And he told me to keep it as a souvenir."

Ila handed the pointer back to Andrea. Andrea then put it back on the shelf behind her. Ila then picked up the frame that she was staring at before, and took another look at it.

"Apollo and Zane have the same eyes, too," Andrea said, pointing them out to Ila. "See for yourself."

Ila stared at it. "Is Zane out on patrol again?"

"Yes."

Two vipers were flying along, side-by-side, towards a planet.
  *What would you say to your uncle, Zane,* started Io, *that is, when
we find and join the Galactica and the rest of the fleet?*
  *I'm not sure... Io,* answered Zane.
  The two vipers synchronously made a left turn as they were scanning
the planet.
  *I'm picking something up on my scanners,* reported Io. *It's not a
clear reading because it seems to be trying to shield itself from
sensors within the magnetic polar region. But it is something big.*
  *Me, too... Warbook reads...*
  The warbook computer was trying to make a match of what was scanned
in one of the vipers.
  *Impossible,* said Io. *It reads a colonial battlestar.*
  *I get the same readings, too.*
  *Must be the magnetic interference.*
  They then saw it through their canopies as the battlestar moved
forwards from its electromagnetic hiding place.
  *Io? Do you see what I see?*
  It WAS no doubt a battlestar.
  *I see it, but I don't believe it.*
  *I'm going to try to contact it, Io,* said Zane. Then he said, *This
is Purple Squadron Group leader to the battlestar. Please respond.*
  *Zane??* It sounded just like Commander Cain. There was some static
mixed with the audio because of interference from the electromagnetism.
They could not get a picture on their monitors of who they were talking
to, also caused by the interference.
  *Father?* said Zane. *Is that you?*
  *Father?!* said a surprised Io.
  *Long story, Io,* said Zane.
  *ZANE!* cried a happy-sounding Commander Cain's voice into their
helmetcomms. The audio cleared up, and Commander Cain's face started
showing through the slow on their monitors.
  *FATHER!* cried Zane. *Permission to come aboard.*
  *Permission granted, my boy.*
  As Io followed Zane to one of the landing bays, Io said, *I don't
think that it is a good idea. It may be a trap.*
  *Trust me, Io. No one except my mother, my father and I know who my
father is. Not even my sister, Sheba, knows that I am her brother.
You'll like her by the way; I'm sure of it.*
  The two vipers went across the front of the viper bay, which said
PEGASUS.
  *The Pegasus?* asked Io. *That was Commander Cain's battlestar, which
was presumed destroyed over two yahrens ago when they were sent out to
Molekai. That man is a real legend.*
  *And he is my father,* responded Zane. *I'll explain later.*
  The two vipers cruised into the landing bay.

The Triton VI was positioned a good distance in front of the Andromeda
as they moved forwards.
  On the bridge of the Andromeda, Andrea, who was on the command deck,
asked aloud, "Any sign of them, Romulus?"
  Romulus, the man at Athena's post on the Galactica, reported, "They
just... abruptly went beyond scanner range, Commander."
  Colonel Meine, aboard the Triton VI, which was in front of the
Andromeda, was on the comline. *They vanished from our sensors as well,
Commander. They suddenly headed out beyond sensor range. I assure you,
Commander; Zane and Io are both survivors. They'll be back. But I am
worried of what they might come back with.

*Aboard the Pegasus, Zane and Io followed Tolen, who was way ahead,
onto the bridge.
  "I thought that your mother just... spontaneously got pregnant," said
Io quietly.
  "That was what my mother led everyone to believe, Io," responded Zane
quietly. "Cain IS my father."
  "So that was how you knew that it was not some kind of trap?"
  "Yes. Only Cain, my mother and I knew. Even Sheba does not know about
it."
  Tolen looked back, and waited for them to catch up.
  "I'll explain later, Io," said Zane as they caught up with Tolen.
  Cain saw then, and ran down the stairway to greet them, with his
swagger stick under his arm.
  Cain and Zane hugged each other, and then said, "I thought that I had
seen the last of you when I learned that the Colonies were destroyed."
  "I thought that I'd never see you again when we learned about Molekai
over two yahrens ago, Father."
  Cain looked at Io.
  "He's OK, Father," said Zane. "This is Lieutenant Io, my wingmate."
  "It is an honor to meet you, Commander," said Io.
  "Where in Hades did you two come from?"
  "The Battlestar Andromeda, Sir, under the flag of Commander Andrea."
  "Your mother??" responded Cain, his face all lit up. "She's alive? In
command of her very own battlestar?"
  Tolen interrupted the reunion. "Commander... I'm picking up... A
battlestar and another small Colonial warship... and fifty other ships
on our scanners."
  "That would be the battlestar Andromeda, the Triton Six, and our
fleet of humanity," pointed out Zane.

Back on the bridge of the Andromeda, Romulus said, "Commander... I'm
picking up something odd here... like either an echo effect of our own
ship or something. And it seems to heading right for us."
  "Feed it up here, Romulus."
  On the monitor on the command station, it was a battlestar.
  Meine, aboard the Triton VI, said, *Commander? I'm getting some
strange readings.*
  "A battlestar, Colonel?"
  *You too?*
  The man at the command station reported, "I'm getting a signal on
Alpha Comline One, Commander Andrea."
  Commander Cain's face appeared on the monitor.
  *Greetings, Andrea,* said Cain. *Seeing your lovely face... is
probably the biggest miracle since... the centar that I got sealed to
Saleya.*
  The Andromeda was the first and only battlestar that can receive and
decode several communications simultaneously.
  "CAIN!" cried Andrea. "How-" She seemed to have lost her ability to
talk.
  "No, Andrea, I am not a ghost. I am alive and well, although the
Pegasus took a good beating from two Cylon basestars at Gomoray almost
fifty centars ago trying to save your brother's hide.*
  Andrea got her speech back. "Why don't you come aboard the Andromeda,
Cain, and We'll talk."
  *Andromeda??* asked Cain.
  "Yes, Cain, The Andromeda... Seeing you again is a blessed miracle."
  *They finally finished its construction?*
  "Yes, Adama was the one who got it going again."
  *All right... I'll launch in a viper, and I'll bring two escorts with
me. See you in twenty centons. I'll bring the vintage ambrosia.* With
that the screen went blank.

Three vipers in arrow formation headed towards one of the Andromeda's
landing bays.
  In the landing bay, the three vipers came to a full stop, with a
group of Colonial warriors gathering around them.
  Several work crew were in the process of moving the portable
platforms over to the three when the pilot in the lead viper climbed
out with a bottle of ambrosia in one hand. With the other hand, he
removed his helmet, tossed it into the open cockpit, and jumped off
before the platforms were placed next to the viper. Cain looked around,
and ran straight to Andrea.
  When he was close enough, he grabbed her in her arms as she put hers
around him. He lifted her right off the floor, and took a spin.
  "Zane is out on patrol right now," said Andrea, "but he seems to have
gone off beyond scanner range."
  "Because he and his wingmate saw my battlestar."
  Andrea looked over his shoulder, and saw Zane and Io standing behind
him.
  They each let go each other with of one arm, holding it out to Zane.
Zane join in, and the three hugged each other.
  "Father, mother, and son reunited," whispered Andrea.
  "I never thought that I would ever see this day," said Cain.
  Everyone around them, except Io, looked at each other, some showing
surprise, and others showing confusion.
  After they separated, Cain wiped his cheek under his left eye with
his hand.
  Andrea and Cain walked to the lift, hand-in-hand, with Zane and Io
following.

In the officer's club, Cain, Andrea, Zane, and Io sat at one table.
They all had plates of food in front of them, and Ila was going around
with the bottle of ambrosia pouring it into their glasses.
  "We survived this long by getting our fuel and supplies from the
Cylons," explained Cain. "They annihilated the Delphian Empire on
Gomoray and made that their outer capitol. We kept on hitting them as
they kept on rebuilding, attacking their supply lines, and salvaging
everything we could. And, then, Sheba and her wingmate brings me back
two Blue Squadron vipers out of nowhere."
  "The Galactica..." said Andrea.
  "She actually brought back Lieutenant Starbuck and Captain Apollo!"
boastedCain.
  "How IS Sheba, anyway?"
  "She was injured, and so was her wingmate, Bojay. So I had them
transferred to the Galactica. By the way, Adama, Apollo, and Athena are
alive and well, but I'm sure that if Adama and I met again, he would
have me executed by a firing squad."
  "Why?"
  "I disobeyed a direct order from him to turn back, and I took the
Pegasus into a tangle with three Cylon basestars."
  "Three basestars?" Andrea was shocked.
  "I told Adama that I was going to face the three baseships no matter
what," continued Cain. "So I made him send me into battle against them
with his blessing. You know, after I had all my nonessential personnel
and the injured transferred, we headed straight for those basestars
while their fighters were heading toward Gomoray to defend it after
Adama and I blew the pogees out of that base and got him all the fuel
he and his fleet could possibly carry. Well, if it was not for two
vipers that headed back and took out the flank missile launchers on the
two basestars instead of escorting the convoy of shuttles, the Pegasus
would have been space dust."
  Cain took another drink of his ambrosia from his glass, and then
continued. "I would not be surprised if those two pilots were Starbuck
and Apollo." He looked at Zane and Io. "I'm sure that it was Starbuck
and Apollo that I owe my thanks to for saving the Pegasus." He took
another drink of ambrosia. "I KNOW that it was Starbuck and Apollo;
because I know that they would do something like that. They ARE both
brave warriors... Their flying styles... Yes, I had to be Starbuck and
Apollo."
  Andrea placed her hand on Cain's, and said, "Yes, it was Starbuck and
Apollo. I know it."
  "Knowing you, Andrea... if you say it was, then it was Starbuck and
Apollo."
  "Well, Cain, in the landing bay, you gave away our secret," pointed
out Zane. "Only Io knew."
  Andrea said, "It's no use hiding it, Zane... It was your father's
idea because he was trying to protect my reputation. We could not say
that I was raped because first of all, we would need some guy with
multiple injuries."
  Cain busted out laughing. "That man would have been me."
  Andrea smiled. "Second of all," she continued. "We could not have YOU
growing up believing that you were the son of a rapist before we were
able to tell you who your father was."
  Io laughed. Then Zane laughed. "So, Commander," Io said to Andrea.
"You were almost Sheba's mother?"
  Everyone laughed.
  Getting back on track, Andrea said to Cain, "My brother would not
have you executed, Cain."
  "I don't know about that, Andrea. He's a changed man. He refuses to
fight if it is avoidable, and yet, he is still the very tough man that
I have come to respect."
  "Well, Cain, you are in command of only one battlestar. Adama has an
entire fleet of unarmed ships to protect, does he not?"
  "Two hundred twenty of them; Apollo and Adama told me," responded
Cain, "In Adama's words, 'nothing better than mere target practice' for
the Cylons."
  "Well, I, too am protecting a fleet of unarmed ships, save the Triton
Six, which can hold up since it is a war vessel. Plus, there are
survivors from Caprica on the Andromeda. I cannot go out and just-
attack a basestar and leave the fleet unprotected, because these Cylons
just- show up out of nowhere, and attack."
  "I understand, Andrea."
  "I know my brother, Cain. Since you have succeeded in saving him and
his fleet, he would be forgiving. He may reprimand you, and then he
would tell you, 'well done, Cain,' and that would be the end of that.
After that, he would forget about it."
  Cain agreed with Andrea.
  "Tell me, where did you meet my brother?"
  "Gomoray... The next star system... A bit over fifty centars ago."
  "We have been trying to catch up with him, Cain..."
  "The Pegasus is not going anywhere in that condition right now,
Andrea."
  "I'll help with repairs on the Pegasus," volunteered Zane.
  "Don't you think that you should ask your mother, Zane?" responded
Cain. Cain picked up his swagger stick that was lying beside him on the
table, and pointed it at Zane. "After all, she's not only your mother,
but she is also your commander."
  "Well, Cain," said Andrea. "We salvaged a lot of spare parts where
ever we can get them when we returned to Caprica. Let me know if you
need anything."
  "A new battlestar," murmured Cain.
  "What?" asked Andrea.
  "That's what I need," boasted Cain. "A whole new battlestar."
  Andrea looked at Cain, flabbergasted.
  Zane and Io laughed. Cain, Andrea; and Ila, who was standing there
with thebottle of ambrosia in her hand; joined the younger warriors in
the laughter.
  "If you did meet up with my husband and have been on the Galactica,
Commander Cain," said Ila, "Who is still alive in my family?"
  Cain looked at Ila and said, "Adama, and Apollo, you know about. Your
daughter, Athena, is also alive and hard at work on the bridge of the
Galactica."
  "Thank you, Commander," said Ila. "Do you know about Zac?"
  "I have not seen him or heard anything about him, Ila," responded
Cain.
  "Do you know where he would be heading?" asked Andrea. "I mean, all
our ships are capable of light speed. We can catch up with him, and
join him. It will then be a fleet of two hundred seventy plus two
battlestars leading the way. If you join us, Cain, it will be three
battlestars."
  "Andrea... if I join, not only will I have to face your brother's
wrath, but it will also be one location for the Cylon Empire to
concentrate their forces on. And just three battlestars and the Triton
Six will not be able to fend off the entire Cylon fleet."
  "The Andromeda is the most advanced battlestar ever built, Commander.
And I have had my skirmishes with a basestar or two... especially at
Cimtar."
  "I know that the Cylons know about the Galactica and the Pegasus,
Andrea. The Cylons keep on dogging Adama, the last time being at
Gomoray. But- for two yahrens, I have been attacking and destroying
every basestar I find. Every Cylon tanker that we find, we attack,
destroy its escorting fighters, and then get whatever fuel and supplies
we can get off them. And we keep on coming back to Gomoray, attacking
there, stealing fuel and supplies, and keeping them from completely
establishing their outer capitol there."
  "Well, Cain," said Andrea, "the last encounter we have had with the
Cylons was at Cimtar. We were too late to save the battlestars that
were present there, but we found out that Adama escaped. We had it out
with a basestar there, and captured two tankers... both full of fuel."
  "Well, perhaps the Cylons don't know about you. They all know about
Adama and the Galactica... That has apparently been the Cylons' first
priority. And they know about the Pegasus, but perhaps they think that
I was destroyed along with two of their basestars. It means we can get
back to Gomoray and completely destroy that base there. From what I
know, Gomoray WAS to be their outer capitol."
  "Cain..." Andrea paused. "I would love nothing more than go on such a
campaign with you... to blow the pogees out of a major Cylon city, with
whatthey did to our homeworlds." She took his hand, holding it
lovingly. "But- I am protecting a fleet of fifty unarmed vessels here.
What would happen to THEM- if the Cylons happened to... stumble upon
them? Without a battlestar to protect them?"
  "You sound almost like your brother."
  "Well, I can reassign Purple Squadron to the Pegasus, and send
Colonel Meine on the Triton Six to go with you, but-"
  "At least you're willing to lend me resources, but it would take more
thanjust a battlestar and a destroyer with one extra squadron... Keep
in mind that I left most of Silver Spar Squadron with Adama when I took
off and left. It would take TWO full battlestars at LEAST to wipe out
Gomoray."
  "Cain, you don't know how much I really WANT to do this. Can I think
it over?"
  "Sure... I need to await repairs on the Pegasus anyway. I just hope
you come to your senses, Andrea. I know that nothing will happen to the
fleet, because I'm sure that the Cylons don't know about it."
  "Well, I am afraid of taking that chance."
  "Well, Andrea... will you at least join me on the Pegasus for
tonight?"

A shuttle and a viper were heading to the Pegasus.
  *Captain Zane and Lieutenant Io requesting landing clearance,* said
Zane.
  Zane climbed out of the viper, and Io and Lee, out of the shuttle,
each with both of his hands full. Zane ran to the shuttle, and grabbed
more stuff. Pegasus crew also went in and took stuff to help carry the
materials.

The caravan of Colonial warriors lugged the stuff down the corridor,
with Tolen, Zane and Io in the lead.
  "Commander Adama was a miracle..." said Tolen. "Seeing you guys is
another. Especially for Commander Cain and myself."
  Zane and Io listened as the three of them were pulling a large crate
together..
  "Your mother is the one who made me," continued Tolen, talking to
Zane and Io, "a captain stuck on a Gemonese space station to an exec on
a battlestar. Commander Cain took your mother's words very seriously,
Zane, and so I became Cain's exec. Anyway, about you ..." He trailed
off. Tolen had many questions, not knowing where to begin.
  "How did we survive?" asked Zane.
  "Yes."
  "Well, the Andromeda was finished just before the peace finalizations
at Cimtar. You know about it, right?"
  "Yes, Zane. Apollo and Starbuck told us what had happened. So many
fools, the old Council of Twelve to believe a man like Baltar."
  "Well, when we got to Cimtar, we were too late to help... All the
battlestars were destroyed... we found traces of them. We even rescued
two abandoned Cylon tankers, and three viper pilots from the
Galactica." Zane paused. "My mother knew where Adama would have taken
the Galactica to, and we went there, only to find traces that Adama had
been at his home on Caprica. He probably believes that his wife is
dead."
  "He does. Apollo told us that he had lost his mother and younger
brother."
  "Well, my aunt Ila, Uncle Adama's wife and Apollo's mother, is alive
and well on the Andromeda. She takes care of the Officer's Club."
  "Oh, is she? Adama and Apollo will be in for a very pleasant surprise
when you catch up with the Galactica."
  They turned, and pushed the large crate through the doorway.
  "Well, we will try to get the Pegasus as good as new," said Io.
  "Well, thank you for coming to help, you two."

"You're as beautiful as ever, Andrea," said Cain.
  The two of them were in her personal quarters, facing each other,
both hands holding both hands.
  "You really know how to make a woman feel like a lady, you know that
Cain?"
  The two of them embraced.
  "Zane really grew to be a warrior... I can see that he is a fine
one."
  "Well, he has some of your instincts, Cain... He does know how to win
a battle in his viper."
  "So does Sheba. She will probably show your brother and Apollo a
thing or two."
  The two of them laughed.
  "You don't know how seeing your face on that scanner on the bridge of
the Andromeda felt, Cain."
  "You know what was going on with ME when I saw Zane, and when he told
me that YOU were the commander of this battlestar."
  "Well-" She was cut off with a kiss.

"Well, most of the systems have been repaired, Colonel," reported Zane
to Tolen.
  "Get back to the Andromeda and get some rest, you two," ordered
Tolen.
  "Wait..." said Io who was working underneath a console. "Let me
finish this."
  Tolen climbed underneath the console beside Io, saying, "Let me help
you out, Lieutenant."

Back on the Andromeda, Cain was sitting on the sofa, with Andrea on his
lap. All of a sudden, there was a beeping coming from the desk. Andrea
got off Cain, and went to it, saying, "Andrea here."
  *Incoming message for Commander Cain on Alpha Comline One,
Commander.*
  Cain got up, and ran over. "I'll take it in here." Looking at the
pins on the person staring back at him on the screen: "...Sergeant."
  On the monitor, Tolen appeared. *My apologies for interrupting
whatever you were doing there, Commander, but I was due with a report
on the status of the Pegasus.*
  "All right, Tolen, let's have it."
  *Most of the repairs are done. All that is left is the hull, which we
have repair crews working on that with the equipment that Captain Zane
and Lieutenant Io and their team brought over. I estimate that the
repairs will be complete within the centar. We owe credit to the team
from the Andromeda, particularly Captain Zane, and Lieutenants Io and
Lee for their help with the repair efforts.*
  Cain and Andrea looked at each other.
  Cain turned back to the monitor, and said, "Thank you, Tolen... Carry
on."
  *Yes, Commander.* With that, the screen went blank.
  Cain looked at Andrea. "You commanded the Pegasus for a short while,
Andrea, during my leave of absence when Saleya died. Why don't you come
aboard? I have several officers there anxious to meet you again,
particularly a fine executive officer that you left with me, named
Tolen." Cain held his elbow out to her.
  As they walked, her hand hooked on his elbow, Andrea said, "Who's
piloting? You or me?"

In the shuttle, Andrea was piloting the shuttle, and Cain, the copilot.
  "There was this wonderful Gemonese woman named Cassiopeia who helped
me recover from Saleya's death," Cain was saying.
  "Ooohh, Cain. Sheba must have been upset," speculated Andrea. "She
would have wanted to be there for her father."
  "She sure was when I brought her home," explained Cain. "I just could
not face Sheba. She looks so much like her mother that she only made
the pain even worse. With you, Sheba probably would have accepted you
better, but- even though you don't look anything like Saleya, there was
that- those good times, between the three of us." Cain paused. "You
brought back that pain as well. On top of that, you were also the
bearer of the bad news. Besides, I wanted no one else to take command
of the Pegasus during my extended furlon except you. You deserved that
chance at being commander of a battlestar."
  "Yes, Cain, and you have a fine crew. But- the battlestar needed
repairs when I first assumed command. You must have really driven the
Pegasus beyond its safe tolerances to get home."
  "Yes I did. You know, if the battlestar could have gone faster, I
would have. Oh yeah, and you gave me a fine colonel. But- a big miracle
was that out of all the people of the colonies, Cassiopeia was one of
the survivors. She's one of the medtechs on the Galactica."
  "This, uh, Cassiopeia and Sheba," Andrea paused. "They must be at
each other's throats."
  "Well, I don't know what happened, but last I saw of Sheba before she
got injured, she seemed to gotten a high respect for her. It must have
had something to do with her wingmate's injuries."
  "Well, that's good. I hope that it stays that way. Especially
because, if I know my brother, he'd put them both in the brig if-"
  Cain broke out laughing.
  Andrea pressed a button, and said, "Andromeda shuttle requesting
landing clearance."
  *Launch control handed to you, Commander,* responded James's voice.

"Set course," ordered Cain, "thirty degrees to port."
  Cain, Tolen, and Andrea were standing on the command deck on the
bridge of the Pegasus.
  "Course set," reported a crew member.
  "Commander Andrea," said Cain. "Would you do the honors?"
  "Execute," she said.

The Pegasus turned a bit to the right, and moved forwards, heading
towards the Andromeda and the fleet.

Back on the Andromeda, Andrea, followed by Zane and Io, walked onto the
bridge.
  "But mother, my place is in a viper... Commanding Purple Squadron. I
think that..." He looked at Io. "Perhaps Io may me a better candidate?"
  "Not me, Zane. My place is by your side as your wingmate."
  "Well," said Zane. "I would not want to lose you as my wingmate
anyway."
  They both looked at each other. "Lee," they both said in harmony.
  By this time, they were up on the command deck.
  "Lee?" asked Andrea.
  "Well, Lee is good at command," pointed out Zane. "After all, she was
in command of Purple Squadron when the three of us headed to Uncle
Adama's home. And, if we did not return, she probably would have taken
command of the Triton Six. I think that she handled herself pretty
well. Also, there is also Captain Paddon."
  Andrea corrected him. "I think that Captain Paddon of Orange Squadron
would have taken command, and probably left Lee in command of both
squadrons. Well, I'll ask Captain Paddon, and if he does not want it,
then I'll ask Lee."
  Io looked at Andrea.
  "Are you up to being captain of Orange Squadron? I ask because,
traditionally in the Colonial military, anything that means rank of
Captain or above, the person has to want it as well. It would not do
much good if the person is not happy in such a command position."
  Zane said, "I am aware of that, Mother. You told me that when you
asked me to come aboard the Andromeda as captain of Purple Squadron...
Besides, Uncle Adama did the same with Apollo yahrens ago. We were
there, and he stated his reason for asking instead of merely ordering
him to do so."
  "Yes, Zane... I was just saying it for Io's benefit."
  Io looked at Zane, and then back at Andrea. "I... I don't know,
Commander," he said reluctantly.
  "All right, I'll ask Paddon. If not, if he decides that he does not
want it, then I'll ask Lee."
  "Then we'll have an all-female command staff," said Io.
  Zane, Andrea and Io laughed.

Andrea's Journal.The Pegasus is leading us to Gomoray, supposedly to
try to track down the Galactica and the fleet of two hundred twenty
that went with Adama. But somehow, I feel that Cain has other ideas on
his mind. With all that Cain and I have been through, I hate to think
that he would deceive me. I would be very disappointed if he did.

The two battlestars and the rest of the fleet approached a planet. They
approached a cluster of wreckage.
  Aboard the Andromeda, Andrea looked out the front window from the
command deck.
  "Message from Alpha Comline One, Commander," reported the man at the
station on the command deck.
  Andrea looked at the monitor screen, and saw Cain there.
  *What you are looking at is basestar fragments, Andrea...* said Cain.
*Apparently, Adama and the fleet have moved on.*
  Andrea said, "Apparently so."

Meanwhile, there was three basestars and several Cylon tankers nearby.
On one of them, Lucifer waltzed into the command center, saying, "By
your command."
  "Speak, Lucifer," said Baltar.
  "It seems that the Galactica and the Pegasus have returned to
Gomoray, and with only part of the fleet."
  "Have all fighters ready to launch."
  "They are ready to launch per your order."
  "I intend to defeat Cain and Adama this time. How many fighter do we
have on Gomoray?"
  "Not too many, Baltar. Most of them were destroyed before they could
launch in the last battle. But- Gomoray may have more than a few, since
Imperious Leader's basestar went to light speed once he was back
aboard. He left at least a basestar's worth of fighters behind as
Imperious Leader's basestar quickly got away. Also, I must point out
that we do have another basestar fifty thousand microns on the other
side of that fleet, awaiting your orders."
  "What of the fighters from the previous two basestars?"
  "One basestar was destroyed, but the other one went to light speed,
and then came back to retrieve the fighters. That basestar had to go
back to Cylon to be rebuilt. The Pegasus' missiles did major damage to
it."
  "You mean that one of the basestars-" Baltar trailed off. "I ordered
them to destroy the Pegasus!"
  "You ordered them to face the Pegasus so that we can escape. And we
did escape."
  Baltar had nothing to say after that.
  "By the way, Imperious Leader said that if we do attack the Galactica
and Pegasus again, he ordered us to use whatever we can, including the
fighters left behind on Gomoray."

Scans of the planet surface by the Andromeda's sensors showed
construction in progress. The sensors also picked up something else.
  "Commander," Romulus called out. "I'm picking up Cylon
transmissions,"  He frowned. "They're civilian transmissions."
  "Wha-"
  "I am also picking up faint traces of solium."
  *That must be from the Galactica and the fleet.*
  "Oh, no," said Andrea.
  *What's wrong with that? Isn't it what you wanted?*
  "I did not want to find three basestars, Commander."
  *What are you talking about?*
  "I am picking up three Cylon basestars and nine Cylon tankers heading
right for us. ten-thousand microns and closing."
  *Tolen?* said Cain in the background.
  She heard Tolen's faint response in the background. *Our sensors
don't have the range of ten thousand microns, Commander.*
  Then Cain realized it. *TEN THOUSAND MICRONS!?* he responded. *A
battlestar's range without recon patrol is only four thousand
microns... six with a patrol squadron.*
  "Well, Commander, the Andromeda has been equipped with the most
modern technology that existed."
  *I'm taking your word on this, Andrea. Let's attack those basestars,
and capture those tankers.*
  "I am protecting a fleet of unarmed ships, Commander, but- I can send
Meine on the Triton Six and my squadrons over to help you out."
  *That's an order, Andrea. I want the Andromeda to lead us to those
basestars. Then-*
  "Cain..."
  *All right, Andrea... I am relieving you of any further
responsibility of making command decisions aboard the Andromeda.* He
turned sideways, as if handing something to Tolen. *Tolen, you are in
command of the Pegasus. I will take command of the Andromeda myself.*
With that, the channel was cut.

Three vipers launched from the Pegasus.

Back on the bridge of the Andromeda, Zane, Lee, Paddon, and Io ran up
to the command deck. "Mother, is what I hear true? Has Commander Cain
relieved you of command?"
  "Yes."
  Paddon said, "He does NOT have the right to do that."
  "He has EVERY right," countered Andrea. "He got his commission as
commander before I did. Furthermore, he was Fleet Commander of the
Fifth Fleet."
  "We can arrest him as soon as he lands, Commander," suggested Lee.
  "That would be mutiny. We are ALL Colonial warriors. We are all on
the same side. Now, get back to your vipers."
  The four of them reluctantly went back in the same direction that
they came from.
  After that, Cain and two other Colonial warriors arrived on the
bridge. As soon as Cain got up onto the command deck...

<- SMACK! ->

Cain was greeted by Andrea slapping him across the face. He responded
to that by grabbing her by her wrists.
  "CALM DOWN, ANDREA." yelled Cain.
  She struggled to free herself. She got one arm free. Cain then
wrapped his arms around her. "AT EASE, COMMANDER," he yelled. "We don't
have alot of time, and I need to explain what I need you to do."
  Seeing that it was fruitless to fight him, she ceased her struggles.
As he held her, he said, "I promise to return the Andromeda to you in
one piece, Andrea. But- It is the rest of the fleet I am thinking of. I
need YOU to take Purple Squadron, and land in any landing bay that can
hold you all amongst the fleet. If that happens to be Baltar back for a
rematch against the Galactica..."
  "I get that feeling that too, Cain."
  "In the event that more Cylons happen to reach the fleet," Cain
continued, that is where you, Purple Squadron, and the Triton Six comes
in. I've seen the schematics for the Andromeda myself, Commander,
before we sailed off to save Molekai and its satellites. I know what
it's capable of, and what its limitations are. All that I need is the
complete cooperation of your crew, and Orange Squadron, and I can keep
my promise of returning the Andromeda to you spaceworthy, and battle
ready, with minimal or no damage to it."
  "But two battlestars against three basestars, with only one
battlestar's worth of squadrons?"
  "I still have warriors from Silver Spar Squadron. And, that is where
the faster and longer range of the weaponry of the Andromeda comes in.
The Pegasus will try to take on the basestars, along with some of my
fighters, and the rest is up to the reflexes of your crew. Now, get to
your viper and help your squadron protect that fleet."
  "Good luck, Cain," she whispered.
  They held each other. Andrea knew that this would be the last time
she would see him, but said it anyway. "I don't just want the Andromeda
back..." She whispered into his ear, "I want YOU, the father of my son,
back as well. And I'm sure that Zane wants his father as well."
  "I'll try, Andrea."
  She knew that Cain had no intention of staying.
  Once she was off the bridge, Cain hit a button on the station on the
command deck, and said, "Captain Paddon... Lieutenant Lee... Report to
the bridge."


The Andromeda moved forwards, and made a U-turn. The Pegasus followed
suit, and caught up to it so that the two battlestars went in
side-by-side. From the Pegasus, which was on the right, vipers
launched, and headed forwards to the approaching Cylons.

As soon as Andrea's viper landed on the Triton VI, she heard Zane's
voice saying, *Mother, what in Hades is going on?*
  *Your father wants us to protect the fleet, Captain.*
  *But that's only a battlestar's worth of fighters against THREE
basestar's worth of fighters.*
  They were interrupted by Meine's voice. *All vipers LAUNCH! There is
a fourth basestar approaching... Its fighters, ninety microns and
closing.*
  From the Triton VI, a number of fighters emerged from its small
landing bay. More launchers launched from several other ships in the
fleet.
  The two squadrons of vipers merged into one, and headed forwards. The
Triton VI followed them.

The Pegasus and Andromeda both went into two different directions
through the waves of Cylon fighters. The Andromeda went left, and the
Pegasus, right.
  A Pegasus' turret fired about ten repetitive rounds at three Cylon
fighters. Two of them were hit. The third one fired back, and the
turret exploded. A viper fired at the fighter, destroying it.
  The Andromeda fired about ten faster repetitive rounds at three other
Cylon fighters. The faster 'reflexes' of the more modern battlestar and
the recharge time wiped out the three fighters.

On the bridge of the Andromeda, an officer said, "The Andromeda is
holding out pretty well against the Cylon fighters. The Pegasus has
sustained minor damage to one of its landing bays."
  "Minor damage?" asked Cain. "How do YOU know?"
  "I picked it up on the Andromeda's sensors, Commander."
  Cain stared at the bridge officer in surprise. Then he asked, "How
long before we can reach optimum firing range?"
  "Optimum firing range in twenty microns," responded another bridge
officer.
  Paddon said, "We would reach optimum firing range with the basestars
before the Pegasus, and before the basestars are at their optimum
firing range with us, Commander."

The Triton VI was exchanging laser fire with the basestar. It was more
difficult for the massive Cylon basestar to hit the smaller,
faster-moving target than it was for the Colonial destroyer to hit the
massive basestar. Improvements and upgrades to its systems were started
on the planet, and the Andromeda crew completed them during the half a
yahren of their voyage. However, some of its laser fire had to be
diverted to take out attacking Cylon fighters.
  The vipers of Purple Squadron were doing a massive clean-up job with
an entire basestar's worth of Cylon fighters. However, six Cylon
fighters fired their lasers and just kept on going, to be chased by
three vipers.
  *Zane... Io... Get ready.* said Andrea.
  The three vipers fired their lasers, but they hit only two of Cylon
fighters in front of them. As soon as the other four approached one of
the unarmed ships, the 'unarmed' ship opened fire from a laser turret
that took out two more. The remaining two veered away from that ship.
  Andrea opened fire at the two fighters, destroying one. Io got the
last one.
  Zane noticed it. *Mother... you've better take a look towards the
planet.*
  Both, Io and Andrea looked, to see a swarm of Cylon fighters. But-
they were heading in the other direction, towards the three basestars
and two battlestars.
  *The three basestars must have called for reinforcements from
Gomoray,* said Io.

Back to the Triton VI, the vipers had finished the battle with the
Cylon fighters, and were heading for the basestar. Andrea then asked,
*Hey, boys... do you two have enough fuel to take a few pogee-shots at
THREE basestars? I want to pull an Apollo-Starbuck.*
  *I'm not sure,* responded Io.

On the bridge of the Triton VI, Meine ordered, "Commence firing, but-
stay at maximum range. We don't want to give that basestar a chance to
use its superior firepower on us."
  From outside, lasers from the small Colonial warship hit the basestar
in various places, but the basestar's lasers torpedoes were about close
to completely dissipated as it hit the Triton VI.
  Purple Squadron vipers were flying all about around the basestar,
firing at various areas, taking out laser turrets and missile
launchers. A turret turned, fired a pair of white laser torpedoes, and
then exploded when a pair of red ones struck it.

On Baltar's basestar, Lucifer walked into the command center, saying,
"Reinforcements from Gomoray have also been dissipated by the humans'
viper fighters. And, our fourth basestar is being fired upon from a
small warship that seems to remain beyond its optimum firing range.
Furthermore, that battlestar with the Pegasus is NOT the Galactica."
  "Was that why the battlestar was able to fire from that range?"
  "Perhaps, Baltar."
  "Well, what battlestar IS it?" cried Baltar.
  "The battlestar Andromeda."
  Baltar stared at Lucifer, with a blank look. "The Ann... Androm...
The Andromeda? Last I knew of that battlestar, it was just merely a
large, high speed transport ship... No weapons were installed yet. And
the Council of Twelve was still trying to decide whether or not to
complete its construction."
  After a few microns of silence, Lucifer inquired, "Orders? Baltar?"
  "We are no match for that new battlestar, Lucifer... Let the other
two basestars take on the two battlestars. Let's get away from here and
get reinforcements."
  "The other two basestar commanders would not like that..."
  "It is an order, Lucifer."
  "By your command."

Three vipers headed towards the battle between the three basestars and
two battlestars in a 'vertical' triangular formation. One of the
basestars was backing away, and then disappeared away in a streak. From
where the Andromeda was, another viper joined the trio.
  *What are YOU doing here?*
  *Cain??* asked Andrea. *I'm going to fight for my battlestar, you
know, Starbuck-Apollo style.*
  *All right... Andrea.* Cain knew exactly what Andrea was talking
about. *You're with me... The other two will go right.*
  The four vipers split into two groups of two.

Zane's and Io's vipers reached their basestar, firing lasers. Two laser
turrets exploded.
  *YEAH!* yelled Zane.
  *Two down and a few hundred more to go, Captain,* said Io.
  *You're a pessimist,* exclaimed Zane. Zane fired three rounds at
something else. *Make that THREE down and a few hundred more to go...
But it's BEAUTIFUL in here.*
  Io fired his lasers, destroying another laser turret. *Yeah,
considering that this is a big piece of Cylon feldeecarb,* he responded
to Zane's comment.

*Just like old times, huh Andrea?* asked Cain.
  *Yeah,* she answered. She fired two rounds of lasers at a laser
turret that fired outwards, presumably at the Andromeda. That turret
exploded. *Back to our days as Lieutenant of Bronze Squadron.*
  The two vipers fired lasers simultaneously.

On the bridge of the Pegasus, the dark-skinned flight sergeant
reported, "Two vipers are flying around the basestar at just sub-light
speed... beaconed as Purple Squadron."
  "Thanks to them for their help..." said Tolen. "Concentrate fire on
the landing bays... We don't want them to launch any more fighters, and
remember that we don't want to accidentally hit our friends in there."
  "Understood, Colonel," responded another bridge officer.

On the Andromeda, Romulus reported, "Two vipers at just sub-light speed
are blowing the pogees out of that basestar's defenses."
  Lee looked at the scanner readings on the monitor on the command
center. "That's my viper," she exclaimed. That must be Commanders
Andrea and Cain."
  "How can you tell?" asked Paddon.
  "The updented nose of the viper... Captain, from when you had no more
fuel and decided to use the nose of my viper to bring yourself to a
stop in the landing bay?"
  The two looked at each other, and then giggled.
  Paddon looked at the monitor in amazement. "Yeah, those two must have
been what got Bronze Squadron's name in history, with such precision
flying."
  "Yeah, acting like they are Captain and Lieutenant again..." said
Lee.
  "Heh heh," was Paddon's response. "Well, commence laser firing, but
be careful not to hit any of our commanders."

*Keep firing, Andrea...* ordered Cain.
  The two vipers headed towards the connection of the two 'hulls' of
thebasestar, continuously firing their lasers. The basestar was showing
signs of dying as it kept spitting out flairs of fire from various
places.
  The two vipers got dangerously close to colliding with that large
column between two landing bay hatches when Cain yelled into his
helmetcomm, *VEER OFF!!*
  One viper made a sharp U-turn towards the left, and the other, a
sharp U-turn towards the right, and then they both fired their turbos.
  Cain then yelled, *Let's GET OUTTA HERE... IT'S GONNA BLOW!*
  As they headed out from between the two hulls, one of the vipers
fired one laser torpedo that merely dissipated on the hull of the
basestar.
  *My lasers must have overheated...* said Andrea.
  *Mine are completely dead,* said Cain. *Just so you know, we captured
eight of those nine Cylon tankers... Four had fuel, and the other four
had varieties of supplies. You'll see four of them in your landing
bays.*
  With that, the two vipers headed in two different directions again,
one heading for the Andromeda, and the other, the Pegasus. Then the
basestar on the left exploded.

On the bridge of the Pegasus, Cain ran up to the command deck,
ordering, "Tell Captain Zane and Lieutenant Io to get their astrums out
of there... We're going to take the Pegasus in to destroy it."
  "Yes, Commander," responded a bridge officer.

*Cain's orders, Io... Come on, let's GO!*
  *I'm with you, Zane... I'm almost out of fuel.*
  *So am I.*
  The two vipers headed away from the basestar, still taking occasional
shots at various points on the basestar.

The Pegasus veered off, firing its lasers at the last basestar.
  "Ready missiles," ordered Cain.
  "Missiles ready for launching, Commander," responded Tolen.
  "Twenty microns and closing," reported a bridge officer. "They are
NOT firing back."
  "Well, it means that Zane and Io have successfully done their jobs,"
responded Cain with pride.
  "Commander, we're in optimal missile range," said Tolen.
  "Launch missile one."
  Tolen's finger lifted the red cover then flipped the red switch
underneath it.
  A missile emerged from a launch tube, and accelerated into space.

On the Andromeda, Zane and Io got back onto the bridge on time to see
the Pegasus moving very close to the basestar out the front portal. A
fiery red streak from the battlestar went towards the basestar, and
exploded. A micron later, the basestar itself exploded in a blinding
display of fireworks. Andrea, Paddon, Zane, Lee, and Io had to cover
their faces with their arms from the brightness.
  "Romulus... Anything?"
  "Interference, Commander," he responded. "Trying to clear it." He was
intensely pushing buttons and turning knobs at his station.
  Once the fireworks cleared, all they saw was open space.
  "Try signaling them... Alpha Comline One," commanded Zane.
  "Trying, Captain... No response."
  Paddon said, "Commander, Cain told me that he left something for you
in your personal office. He wanted you and Zane to see it. She also
wanted me to tell you to take care of, in his words, 'our son.'"
  She placed a hand on Paddon's shoulder, saying, "Thank you, Captain.
In the meantime, let's rejoin the fleet and move on."
  "Yes, Commander."
  With that, she and Zane left the command center and went into the
office.

Andrea sat in the chair, with Zane standing behind her. There was a
data storage device on the desk. She plugged it into the desk.
  Cain's face showed on the screen. *Andrea... My apologies for having
to relieve you of your command the way I did; there was no time to
explain. I had promised you that I will return the Andromeda to you as
intact as I could, and I intend to keep that promise. I wish you well
on your journey. I love you, Andrea. As much as I loved Saleya.
Remember that.*
  *Zane,* Cain on the screen continued. *I am proud to call you my son.
But all these yahrens, for your mother's protection, I just could not
tell you in front of everybody. You've grown from the little boy who
has always flirted with my daughter, Sheba, to a fine warrior. Well,
this time, I mean it... Stop flirting with your little sister.* There
was a grin on Cain's face.
  Zane and Andrea laughed, and Zane blushed.
  *WHEN...* Cain kept going. *NOT if... I mean, WHEN, you meet the
Galactica, please give Adama my regards... and I'll leave it in both of
your capable hands to deliver my love to Sheba. If I do make it back to
the Pegasus I will take the Pegasus to light speed upon the destruction
of the last basestar. But- based on what I have told you about my fight
at Molekai and when I helped Adama out when Baltar attacked the
Galactica with three basestars, you both probably knew my intentions,
especially you, Andrea, with that sixth sense of yours. I intend to
give the Cylons three places to zone in on instead of two... Or when
you do join Adama, two locations. Good luck, you two. Commander Cain
out.* With that, the screen went blank.
  Andrea and Zane looked at each other.
  "Have you chosen the next Andromeda exec yet, Mother?" asked Zane.
  "Well, Captain Paddon does not want it, but Lieutenant Lee says that
she is willing to cover it." She pulled out a small box in the palm of
her hand and opened it,
  "Captain's pins?" asked Zane.
  "Well, she will have to EARN the rank of Colonel," she explained.
"She's only a lieutenant. Give me about a centar, and then have her
report in here when the fleet is under way."
  "Yes, Mother." With that, Zane walked towards the door, but stopped.
"Will you be all right Mother?"
  "Yes, Captain," she said, keeping emotions shielded behind her
military training.
  With that, Zane left.
  Andrea picked up another picture from her desk, and stared at it. It
was a picture of Commander Cain in blue bridge uniform, herself dressed
the same way, a very young Zane his light brown full flight uniform
with Sergeant's pins, and young Sheba in her beige cadet's uniform
without rank pins.

The Andromeda, followed by the Triton VI, and the rest of the fleet
moved forwards. They would fend off Cylons that they encountered, and
get much needed fuel, and occasionally, food, from the various planets
that they passed, and find occasional traces of Colonial activity,
telling them that the Galactica and the fleet had been there. They even
found occasional traces of ancient colonial activity, revealing that
there was indeed a thirteenth group of Colonial ships that left Kobol,
the mother world of the Twelve Colonies.
  The fleet had the advantage of every vessel having light-speed
capability, but it can be dangerous when slowing down from light-speed.
The problems would range to collisions as they decelerated, or ships
decelerating a split-micron too soon or too late and getting lost. The
fastest that they would move is at just sublight speed.
  It would be a while for them to be seen or heard from again.

Fleeing from Cylon tyranny, the Battlestar, Andromeda, leads a ragtag,
fugitivefleet, on a lonely quest with one goal: Survival.
