Final Flight – Exodus

This story is a continuation of the Battlestar Galactica - Final Flight series. Please read Final Flight and Final Flight-Flashbacks before reading this story.

As always, Battlestar Galactica is a property of Glenn Larson and Universal Pictures. No profit or remuneration is sought by the author. This story is solely intended for the enjoyment of the readers. All characters not original to Battlestar Galactica are from the imagination of the author and are not meant to resemble real persons. Ships and technologies not original to Battlestar Galactica are also from the imagination of the author and are not meant to resemble those from other stories or real situations.

Note: for clarity and the sanity of the author narrative use of dimensions will be in the metric (SI) system.


Battlestar Galactica
Final Flight - Exodus

"My world is spinning around,
"Everything is lost that I found."
"People run, come ride with me,
"Let's find another place that's free."
Ride My See Saw -The Moody Blues


Chapter 1 - 30 March 2010

With a flash the ships of Earth Defense Navy Task Force 2.1 decelerated from light speed. The task force was centered around the carrier Saratoga and like Task Force 1.1 it included the Lexington class carrier, two heavy cruisers, two light cruisers, four destroyers, and four frigates along with the carrier's fighter wing. Ahead of them lay the closest solar system to Earth's, the Centauri system.

The Alpha Centauri system was composed of three stars, A, B, and C otherwise known as Proxima since Proxima was the closest known star to the Solar System. A and B orbited each other every 80 years. Their closest approach to each other was about 11 AU (astronomical units) or about the orbit of Saturn around the Sun. Their farthest separation was 35 and a half AU or about the average distance of the orbit of Pluto. Proxima orbits the other two at twelve to thirteen thousand AU.

Peace had settled over the Solar System since the defeat over Mars of the Cylon pursuit force. The Cylons had followed the Colonial Rag Tag Fleet, led by the Battlestar Galactica, to Earth, but were soundly defeated by the combined Colonial and Navy forces. After the battle over Mars the colonial refugees had been settled, the damaged Galactica had been towed to Ceres, and the ships of the Rag Tag fleet had been repaired at the Moon Base. Most of the civilian ships were later mothballed on Ceres, the military useful ones were retained for use by the Earth Defense Navy under contract to their owners as auxiliaries. Two such ships a freighter and a tanker were with the Saratoga's task force.

Several ships of Task Force 2.1 separated from the main formation and formed two smaller task groups. The first led by the heavy cruiser Boston remained behind to conduct a survey of the Proxima Centauri while the main group proceeded on to the main two stars of the Alpha Centauri system. Upon arrival, the main group, led by the Saratoga began a survey of the Alpha Centauri A system while a third group led by the heavy cruiser Philadelphia departed to the second half of the Alpha Centauri system, Alpha Centauri B.

Over the next few days the planets of each star were found, categorized, and mapped from orbit. Proxima was found to have three little ice balls orbiting it. While A and B turned out to have respectable retinues of planets; six around A and five around B. All of them rocky, there were no gas giants in the triple star solar system. Their place being taken by the stars themselves. What was surprising was the discovery that both A and B each had one habitable planet and over each planet was a respectably sized moon. Those findings were reported back to the Moon base while survey teams began a detailed exploration of the habitable worlds, their moons and conducted a resource survey of the other bodies in the triple solar system.

**********

To an outside observer the asteroid Ceres would look exactly like it had throughout recent millennia. Ceres was 950 kilometers in diameter and had an elliptical orbit that varied from 381 million kilometers to 447 million kilometers from the Sun. Within the asteroid the EDN had set up several underground facilities. The first facility was where the ancient colony ships of the 13th Tribe were stored to make room for newly constructed ships at the moon base. The second facility was a Tylium mine as Ceres was the EDN's primary source of the valuable fuel. The third facility was where the damaged Colonial Battlestar Galactica was slowly being rebuilt. To hide the various ships from Earth observation should a probe ever be sent to the asteroid the same technique to create the moon base was used. Craters were roofed over and camuflaged. Using a roofed over crated allowed the creation of a shirt sleeve environment for the repair teams working on the Galactica. Currently the ancient battlestar was enclosed by a vast array of scaffolding and work platforms.

**********

The sun shined down on the stifling hot minor port city. Within the port stood a massive concrete quay and an adjacent yacht basin. Several large cargo handing cranes were emplaced on the quay. The port was the home to a long range, ocean going power cruiser production factory. The yacht basin was filled with power cruisers the factory had produced and were waiting for sale, mostly to international customers as only a handful of the host country's populace was able to afford one of the large boats.

Two men stood silently on the quay as a cargo was loaded onto one of the power cruisers moored alongside the quay. Several other men stood nearby. Their heads turned constantly looking for any threats to the first two men and to the operation taking place.

The power cruisers being built had three cabins, one amidships, one port and one starboard. In the amidships cabin the bed had been removed and the hull over that cabin had been removed. A crane lowered the cargo into the vacated cabin. The cruiser then settled a little lower into the water due to the weight of the cargo. After the longshoremen had loaded the cargo and removed the crane a separate crew boarded the boat to remove the shipping material around the cargo to reveal what appeared to be a new bed for the cabin. Finally a third crew boarded the power cruiser to repair the hull over the cabin.

"That's the last one," the first man said to the second. The second man stood silently, only nodding his head in reply. Both reveled in the knowledge that the operation had been concluded successfully after loading similar cargos into a score of other power cruisers in the previous weeks. Those other boats had already been crewed and sent on their way. Some had left the port directly under their own power. Others had been loaded onto cargo ships as their destinations were beyond the range of the cruisers. They had then been unloaded at a port in the Americas and from there sent onto their final destinations. Half had passed through the Panama Canal and the rest had proceeded north. The departures and travel speeds of the power cruisers had been timed meticulously to ensure that they would arrive at their destinations within a day of each other.

Unbeknownst to the men standing on the quay another person observed the proceedings. He stood unmoved by the stifling heat of the day wearing a white tunic, trousers and cape. All adorned with embroidery and jewels. He too nodded his head in satisfaction, a deadly smile spread across his face. He then departed. His ethereal presence going unnoticed by those around him.

Chapter 2 - 14 May 2010

In the vastness of the Great Plains of the United States sat a formerly small town, Naper, Nebraska. Unlike most prairie towns over the past thirty years, this town and two others, St. Charles and Herrick, South Dakota, had grown remarkably. In contrast, most prairie towns were slowly dying due to the lack of jobs and the consolidation of farm land. In fact many called what happened to the three towns, now small cities, the miracle of the plains.

Colonial Industries had purchased much of the farm land around and much of the real estate within and around the three towns. They had then set up factories to produce everything from food stuffs, consumer electronics, furniture, house hold appliances, automobiles, to general aviation aircraft. Other factory sites were also established in other states, but the center of Colonial Industries resided in these three towns. Now, the volume of products was small compared to those corporations that had been in existence for decades or longer, but Colonial Industries prided themselves on being the only true remaining completely domestic manufacturers in the USA. The Made in USA label was shown proudly on each product made.

In addition to the factories entire neighborhoods had been built to handle the influx of workers to staff the factories. Security measures had also been emplaced to secure both the factories and the "company towns." The company towns were not completely isolated from the original prairie towns, but without the security measures Colonial Industries feared an influx of job seekers and vagrants beyond what the corporation could handle.

Naper, St. Charles, and Herrick had also grown along with the creation of company towns Colonial Industries set up for their workers. While the company towns were completely independent, much like military bases, businesses had been created to provide the company towns with alternate services. Shopping malls, restaurants, car dealerships, grocery stores, and gas stations had sprung up concurrent with the growth of the company towns.

To enforce company security, a private guard force that held the force of law within company property was created. Colonial Security worked hard to maintain a good working relationship with both local and state authorities. They were known throughout the region for being both very tough when it came to security of company property and personnel and extremely fair and easy to work with when they dealt with non-company property and persons. They were one of the first choices for the local authorities whenever a situation developed that was outside their capabilities to handle.

Recently, a large turnover of personnel had taken place within the company towns. Unbeknownst to the population at large, five years ago the passengers and much of the crews of the Colonial "Rag Tag" fleet had been settled in the company towns, displacing most of the original employees and their families. The displaced families, having satisfied the criteria established long ago on the Davis farm in Montana when they were initially employed, were transferred up to the moon base.

One new resident and his wife were returning home from a community council meeting. Their black Chevrolet Impala shined in the long summer's evening sun light as it stopped in the house' driveway. Paul Adams, otherwise known as Colonel Apollo of the Colonial Fleet and President of the Council of the Twelve, got out of the car, opened his wife, Sheba's door and together they walked over to their street side mail box. They removed the contents and walked up the short walk to their front door. Apollo unlocked the door and again opened it for his wife, following her into their house. Their house was a typical American ranch house with three bedrooms and two bathrooms. This provided them with room for their entire family. Their two sons had opted to share an apartment in Naper while their daughter had remained. All three had enrolled for classes at the local college.

Apollo, soon after he, Sheba and their children had been settled, had started training for a position with the Colonial Security branch of Colonial Industries. That plan was aborted as he was almost drafted to be a councilman during a write in campaign by other Colonial refugees to replace his father on the Council of the Twelve. Apollo, honored to be chosen to replace his father on the Council had accepted his nomination. Now, he and three other council members resided in Naper, while the other eight were split between St Charles and Herrick.

"We're home," Sheba called as she and Apollo enter their home.

"Hey, mom, dad," their daughter, Ruth, called from the breakfast area next to the kitchen where she was doing homework. Her laptop computer and a scattering of paper covering the table.

"How was your day, honey," Sheba asked while joining her daughter in the kitchen. Mother and daughter then began a long discussion on each of their days, Ruth's time at college and Sheba's in the Council meeting. In the living room Apollo sat down in his recliner to go through the mail a second time.

Outside, a blue sedan pulled into their driveway. A fairly tall, blond haired man wearing a dark blue business suit got out of the car and walked up to the house. His patent leather shoes gleamed in the evening sun light. He rang the door bell when he reached the front porch. A moment later Apollo opened the door. He immediately recognized the man on his door step.

"Lieutenant Hoeing, come in. What can I do for you?"

"Hello, Colonel," he replied as he stepped inside. Apollo closed the front door behind him. Apollo had gotten to know Lieutenant Hoeing quite well over the last five years. Hoeing had been reassigned from being Admiral Stevens personal aid to his liaison to Colonel Apollo and the Council of the Twelve.

"Admiral Stevens sends his regards," Hoeing began taking a simple, white envelope out of his jacket's inside breast pocket and handing it to Apollo. He stole an appreciative glance into the kitchen where Ruth and Sheba were preparing the evening meal. Apollo took the envelope and quickly opened it to see a printed invitation. The title of it said.

"Battlestar Galactica Commissioning Ceremony."

"So the repairs should be completed on schedule," Apollo asked rhetorically. He already knew the state of the battlestar's repairs. Hoeing's main job was to give Apollo and the Colonial Council monthly status updates.

"That's right, Colonel," Hoeing said. "They're on track to have everything done in time for the re-commissioning in three months." He stole another glance into the kitchen. This time Ruth caught his eyes and he quickly looked away. She rolled her eyes and continued with her work.

Soon after the battle over Mars when the Galactica was crippled by Baltar's suicide bomb, the Galactica was towed to a repair station on the asteroid Ceres. EDN and Colonial engineers had gone over the ship to develop a repair plan. Apollo and the surviving council members had gone over the plan and then approved it. In exchange for the repair work several of the Rag Tag Fleet's ships, ones that had been government owned, had been turned over to the EDN. This had provided the EDN with some needed support ships such as tankers and freighters. The EDN had designs for military support ships on their drawing boards, but the trade was beneficial to both parties.

Another decision had been made at that time. The Council had to decide whether to maintain the Galactica as an independent unit thereby keeping the Colonial Fleet intact, albeit with only one operational unit, or to integrate the Galactica into the EDN. The choice was quickly made to keep the Colonial Fleet separate from the EDN. The issue of building or procuring from the EDN suitable escort ships, the lesson of having escorts for the mighty battlestar was well learned, was deferred as the Colonial government had few assets to trade to the EDN. They were sure that under joint operations that, like the battle over Mars, that the EDN would provide escorts as needed.

The Council and EDN also agreed to essentially rebuild the Galactica to be as compatible with EDN technology as possible as any future operations or repairs would use EDN technology. Several times the repair plan and schedule had to be changed as unforeseen damage had been identified. The Galactica essentially had to be stripped down to her main structural members and rebuilt. Once repairs to the Galactica were completed a new crew would be recruited from the transplanted Colonials, many veterans from the Galactica's crew had retired, and a massive training program would begin on the moon base then later within the rebuilt ship.

Hoeing took another envelope out of his pocket and handed it to Apollo. With an upward twitch of an eyebrow towards the young EDN officer Apollo opened the second envelope to reveal a set of travel arrangements for himself, the members of the Council and their spouses on EDN transports from Naper, Nebraska to the moon base, then on to Ceres for the re-commissioning ceremony then back to Naper.

"I need to report these developments to the Council," Apollo told Hoeing. "They'll be glad to hear that the work should end as scheduled. Uh, please tell Admiral Stevens that we accept his invitation and, unless something comes up, that we'll be on Ceres in time for the ceremony."


Chapter 3 - 23 May 2010

Six space suited figures bounded across the surface of the moon of the third planet of Alpha Centauri A. The white overalls of the skin-tight suits shone brightly under the combined light of the sun and planet below. Dust kicked up in parabolic sprays in the vacuum with each bounding step the six men took. Behind them a shuttle waited patiently while a couple hundred meters ahead of them a mystery loomed.

During the previous weeks the efforts of the expeditionary force concentrated on two habitable planets in the Alpha Centauri system. Orbital scans were performed of the two worlds and their satellites. It was quickly discovered that both Alpha Centauri A-3 and Alpha Centauri B-2 had nearly the same diameter and surface gravity as the Earth.

A-3's diameter was slightly more than Earth's at 6,430 kilometers and its surface gravity was also slightly more at 1.01g. A-3's axial tilt were also similar to Earth's at 23.1 degrees. A-3 orbited its sun at 1.25 AU which corresponded to where theory stated would be the optimum orbit for a habitable planet around Alpha Centauri A. A-3's land percentage was nearly forty percent compared to Earth's thirty percent.

B-2's diameter was slightly less than Earth's at 6,242 kilometers and its surface gravity was also slightly less at .98g. B-2's axial tilt were also similar to Earth's at 23.5 degrees. B-2 orbited its sun at 0.7 AU which corresponded to where theory stated would be the optimum orbit for a habitable planet around Alpha Centauri B. B-2's land percentage was less than Earth's at 26 percent.

The moon over A-3 was a little smaller than Earth's moon with a diameter of 1200 kilometers with a corresponding surface gravity of .11g. It orbited the planet in a surprisingly similar orbit to Earth's moon, its period was exactly twenty nine and a half days. Also, like Earth's moon, A-3s moon was tidally locked so that one face constantly faced the planet.

The moon over B-2 was slightly smaller than the moon over A-3. Its diameter was 1135 kilometers and its surface gravity was slightly more than .1g. Coincidentally, the moon over B-2 also orbited with exactly the same period, exactly twenty nine and a half days and was tidally locked with B-2.

An orbital radar survey of A-3's moon had discovered an area of exceedingly high radar reflectivity on the moon's north pole. A photographic analysis of the site revealed some kind of structure on the moon's surface. A team was assembled from the Yorktown's Marine detachment and dispatched to investigate the site.

"We're approaching the structure now," Marine Lieutenant Anthony Hughes announced. His signal was relayed by the landed shuttle up to the Saratoga’s CIC where the commander of the task force, Rear Admiral Thomas Kennymore stood over a plotting table monitoring the surface team. Videos from the surface team's helmet cameras were being displayed on the plotting table. The images from the cameras were constantly wobbling as the surface team bounded toward the structure. The Saratoga’s Marine commander, Captain Brian Marks also stood at the pedestal watching his men explore the newly discovered structure.

"Well, isn't that something," one of the Marines on the surface said with some amazement. The six men had stopped a dozen meters short of the structure, a stone pyramid with a base fifty meters on a side and twenty five meters tall. One face of the structure, with what appeared to be an entrance, faced the planet below.

"Yet, not really surprising, Sergeant," Hughes replied. "Set up the radar reflectors at the corners of the structure," he ordered. The rest of the team bounded off to the four corners of the pyramid and set up four highly polished aluminum dodecahedrons.

"We're ready for the position fix," Hughes announced once the reflectors were set up.

A moment later a technician in the Saratoga’s CIC announced, after scanning the structure with the ship's radar, that the pyramid was perfectly aligned with the moon's north pole and that the alignment of the faces was also perfectly aligned to face the planet.

"We're now going to investigate the interior of the structure," Hughes announced next. He and his men activated their helmet mounted lights and shone them into the entrance of the pyramid. The lights revealed that the opening was much like the former moon base's commander's personal airlock. Hughes produced a duplicate of the medallion that Starbuck had used years before to reopen the moon base and inserted it into the receptacle in front of him. With a sprinkling of dust, the outer airlock door opened at a twist of the medallion.

Hughes and the men behind him shined their lights further into the structure. Unsurprisingly, they saw an airlock exactly configured like the one Starbuck and Dan Foster had opened long ago. Hughes waved for all but two of his men to enter the airlock. He then cycled the airlock using the duplicate key. The outer airlock door shut, air was pumped into the lock, and a light began to illuminate the four men. The inner door opened a moment later to reveal a short corridor that led to a ten meter by ten meter vaulted chamber.

The four men left their helmets on and walked into the brightly lit chamber. All four walls were covered with images of the Alpha Centauri star system and the two Earth sized planets. On the wall opposite to the airlock was another door.

A quick look at the pictures revealed that they were not originally habitable, but were made so by the 13th Tribe. Also, the two planet's moons were placed there to match Earth's moon's size and orbital characteristics. Kobolian writing covered all the space on the walls not covered by the pictures. While the party took out their cameras and began to photograph everything, Hughes noticed that some of the writing was larger right next to the opening he just emerged from. He began to read out loud, translating from Kobolian to English as he read.

"We give these worlds to our children. When it is time for you to leave the Earth in search of life out there, you will find a barren universe around you..."

--------------------------

"We have prepared these worlds to encourage you to do the same elsewhere until you reach the Home World and your brethren, the other twelve tribes. Life is a precious gift from the Creator. Spread it as far and wide as you can," Admiral Stevens concluded as he read from the report in the moon base's main conference room.

With him in the conference room were Captain Starbuck, Ron Davis, Michael Davis, and several other members of the EDN leadership.

"A second pyramid was found on B-2's moon," Stevens added. "It was identical to the one over A-3."

"The translation appears to be correct," Starbuck announced as he closely scrutinized some of the photographs in front of him. Years ago as part of the training program for recruits for the EDN, two language classes were created, one for Caprican, which had become the common tongue of the Colonies and a second for Kobolian, the language of the 13th Tribe. Starbuck had used the knowledge of Kobolian that the Angels of the Ship of Lights had given to him and documents available on the moon base to write a Kobolian to English dictionary and grammar. That dictionary was slightly more complete than the Caprican to English one that he had also written. His only supporting document for Caprican was the small Book of the Word that was part of every Viper pilot's survival kit.

"It appears that the 13th Tribe provided us with a gift as they settled on Earth," Ron said. "What else was in the chamber?"

"The other inscriptions and pictures described the terraforming of the two worlds," Stevens said. "The second door led to an underground chamber containing the life support equipment and power supply."

"A new frontier," Michael Davis said wistfully. "This is what many Americans have asked for over the years as the Federal Government had grown to tyrannical proportions."

"Yet, we should not jump into colonization immediately," Ron Davis countered. "Our people made many mistakes when we colonized North America. Let's do this one right. First we need to completely understand the conditions of both worlds. Then we can decide the details of colonization."

"I agree," Starbuck added. "The environments of both worlds may be very sensitive to change since they were artificially created."

Admiral Stevens thought quietly while listening to the discussion around him. The opportunity for his people was great, but the risks were unknown.

"Let's continue with the exploration of the Centauri system as planned," he said. "We'll meet again when the next update is sent."

Chapter 4 - 13 June 2010

Beep, beep, beep.

Apollo slapped the top of the alarm clock to end the annoying beeping. With a groan he pulled his bed covers aside and sat up in bed rubbing the sleep from his eyes. He looked at the alarm clock to read the time, 4:30 am.

"Mmmm", a sleepy Sheba complained from the other side of the bed.

"We have an early flight," Apollo said groggily. "You can sleep a little longer, but you won't get me to wash your back."

"Hmmrrr," Sheba groaned as she too pulled her covers away and sat up in bed. The two then made their way to their bathroom.

An hour later, Apollo dressed in a conservative yet stylish dark blue business suit, and Sheba dressed similarly in navy blue except with a knee length skirt, were waiting in their living room. They had packed their luggage carefully the day before. In two garment bags were their Colonial dress uniforms. In a third suitcase were their other clothes and personal items for the trip to Ceres.

While sitting in his easy chair Apollo took a quick appraising look at his wife, she smiled quietly back. He thought she looked smart in her new skirt, blouse and blazer. Her curves filled the blazer nicely, curves not too diminished by age and motherhood, and her legs were exposed from the knee down to her stylish, modestly high pumps. Beneath the soft civilian clothes he knew that a Colonial Warrior resided, her strength hidden beneath a layer of femininity.

Sheba, like Apollo and many other warriors, had relaxed upon being settled on Earth. Soon, she had become anxious to expand her horizons. She led her squadron mates in simulator time during the monthly Colonial Fleet Reserve training sessions. She had even requested that the EDN allow her, and any other Warrior that makes a request, access to their F-1 Lightning and A-1 Avenger simulators. She had learned to fly, on the simulator at least, both vehicles as well as maintain her Viper and Colonial shuttle ratings.

Apollo, as his duties as President of the Council of the Twelve allowed, followed his wife's lead in learning to fly the EDN fighters. He found them, as he had witnessed during the battle with the Cylons five years ago, less maneuverable than a Viper, yet slightly more maneuverable than a Cylon Raider. Their missile and electronic warfare capabilities, plus the added crewmember, more than made up for this lack.

Ruth came from her room as her parents were waiting. She had just dressed after her morning shower and was heading to the kitchen for a cup of tea. She gave her parents an appreciative look over.

"It looks like you're ready to go," she commented as she filled a teapot and placed it on the stove top.

"We're just waiting for our ride," Apollo replied. "They should be here about now."

Just then a smooth black limousine pulled up to their house. The Colonial Charters uniformed driver exited the car. From the other side Lieutenant Hoeing, also in a business suit, exited and together they walked up to the house and rang the bell. The door opened immediately as Sheba had seen the car pull up through the front room windows.

"Good morning, Captain Sheba," Hoeing began while he and the other man held themselves stiffly at the position of attention.

"Good morning, Lieutenant," she replied.

"This is Bosun's Mate Carter. We've come to take you to the airport. Do you have your bags ready? If so, then we'll load them into the car."

"We sure do," Apollo added while bringing the bags to the door. Quickly the luggage was loaded into the trunk of the limousine.

"Have a good time," Ruth said while stepping quickly to the door. "I wish I was going with you."

"I wish you could go too, baby," Sheba replied while giving her daughter a hug.

"We'll be back in a few days," Apollo added while giving his daughter a hug in turn. He and Sheba then exited their house and climbed into the limo. Hoeing and Carter held the doors open for them.

After buckling up, Apollo and Sheba snuggled together, as best as they could, for the ride to Naper International Airport. Fifteen minutes later the limo pulled up to a VIP entrance. There Hoeing and Carter helped their passengers out of the car and retrieved their bags. They then led the couple into the terminal. Inside Hoeing made a quick head count of the people in the waiting area.

"We're still waiting for a few more," he told Apollo. "The flight should leave on time."

"Ok, thanks," Apollo replied as he and Sheba also made a quick assessment of who was in the VIP lounge. He saw most of the Council of the Twelve waiting on the couches. As the Council was not in session, he nodded his greetings to the other council members who replied with their own sleepy nods. He and Sheba found an empty couch and sat down to wait until their flight was called. Across the aisle from them sat Sire Uri, the Council's most senior member, and his wife.

"Good Morning, Sire Uri, Siress," Apollo greeted as he took his seat.

"Good Morning, Mister President, Captain Sheba," he replied. Five years ago, with the death of Adama, Uri had hoped that he would be chosen to be President of the Council. Instead, Apollo was chosen by the Caprican people to replace his father. The Colonial people, despite the twenty years passed since the debacle on Carillon, had not forgotten Uri's blunder. Now Uri was very old and was happy just to retain his seat on the Council. The people he represented, the Sagittarians, still valued his political experience, and as the most senior member, Uri had considerable sway among the younger members. Uri had used this experience to become the Council's "Elder Statesmen." Long ago he had become an expert on Colonial Law and Customs. He became the calming hand on the Council. Though he and Apollo had many differences, he still had become something approaching an advisor to the new Colonial president. Apollo in turn had learned to respect Uri's vast experience and political acumen.

"I take it that you are looking forward to the re-commissioning of the Galactica," Uri said.

"Indeed," Apollo replied. "It is about time the Colonial remnant starts contributing to the defense of Earth."

Ah, yes, Uri thought to himself. Ever since the near destruction of the Galactica by the traitor, Baltar, the Colonial peoples had been forced by circumstances to be completely reliant on the EDN. Though, in their defense, the EDN had been very generous and gracious with the Colonials. Still, he was in complete agreement with Apollo. The reactivation of the Colonial Fleet would give them some measure of independence again.

Several more figures then entered the VIP lounge. Apollo and the others looked up to see who they were. Through the lounge's windows he could see two large passenger vans stopped near the entrance. Men were working to move luggage from the rear van to some luggage carts. He saw his son, the new leader of Blue Squadron, and the other squadron leaders exit the forward van and come into the lounge. The other squadron leaders, Lt. Tobias, Capt. Bojay, Capt. Brie, and Lt. Cree followed him through the door. Finally, Captains Greenbean and Athena walked in. Capt. Omega, the other command rated bridge officer trailed the others. Apollo waved for his son, sister, and brother in law to come join him. The three quickly stepped over and sat down next to Apollo and Sheba.

Before anyone could do more than say good morning, a Colonial Charters official came into the lounge to announce that the flight was ready for boarding. Apollo and Sheba led the gathering toward the boarding ramp and onto a Colonial Airlines Boeing 727. The whole aircraft was configured for first class passengers, two large seats on either side of the central aisle with sufficient leg room between rows to fully recline each seat to a nearly horizontal position.

At the entrance to the aircraft a Colonial Charters flight attendant gave each passenger their seating assignment. Apollo led his wife to the first row of seats and sat down.

A short time later the airliner was airborne and on course to San Jose, Costa Rica. Five hours later the aircraft touched down and was refueled. The passengers were all allowed to disembark the aircraft to stretch their legs in the customs lounge. Again, the flight took off, this time heading west over the Pacific Ocean. An hour over the water the pilots turned the aircraft southbound and transferred power from the outboard, conventional jet engines to the centrally mounted, Tylium powered engine. Outside radar coverage of any of the world's powers the flight left the Earth's atmosphere and accelerated towards the moon.

Once the flight had landed in the EDN moon base, Apollo, Sheba and the rest of the passengers were again allowed to disembark. Again, they found themselves in a VIP lounge in the Base Operations center. A well known figure entered the room as the Colonial passengers again took the opportunity to stretch their tired legs. The man walked up to Apollo and Sheba.

"It looks like they let just about anyone in here," Starbuck quipped with his trademark grin spread across his face, slightly startling the half asleep Apollo. Apollo quickly looked up, realized who was talking to him, stood and struck out his hand.

"You daggit," Apollo exclaimed while Starbuck took the proffered hand and shook it Colonial style and then gave Sheba a quick hug. Starbuck then led his friends over to the bar for a drink. He quickly informed them that he would be joining them for the next leg of their journey.

An hour later, just long enough for all the passengers to stretch their tired legs and get a bite to eat the flight to Ceres was called. This time, two EDN long range shuttles configured as VIP transports were used. The weary passengers boarded the two craft and soon they were on their way. The flight to Ceres was much shorter as the shuttles could fly directly there under full power.

As was typical of all EDN bases the main base on Ceres, Dome 1, the EDNs Tylium production facility, was in a roofed over crater. Two camouflaged clamshell doors opened upwards at the approach of the shuttles, exposing the interior of the crater. The shuttles, one after another, glided to a relative stop over the open doors and descended vertically through the opening. After both shuttles had set down the overhead doors closed. The spacecraft park within the crater was kept at a vacuum. A pressurized bus drove over to each shuttle. Once the buses were docked to the shuttles the hatches were opened and the passengers transferred to the buses. The buses then drove to a large airlock where, after pressurization, the passengers were allowed to walk into the Ceres base operations center. There, the now very weary passengers were escorted to the Temporary Officers’ Quarters to sleep after their long day.


14 June 2010

The next morning the guests gathered in the officer's mess for breakfast. Starbuck, Admiral Stevens, the Project Chief Engineer, and the Galactica's Chief Engineer met them there to eat. Naturally, the Council members sat at one table, the Colonial Fleet officers at another, while Apollo, Sheba, Admiral Stevens and Starbuck sat at a third. The former Galactica officers, including Apollo and Sheba, wore their dress uniforms while the members of the Council had adapted to wearing American formal wear, suits and ties for the men and slacks and blazers for Siress Tinia and Blassie.

Adm. Stevens ate quickly as was his habit then, when he saw that most of the others in the mess had eaten, stood up.

"Ladies, gentlemen," he began. "I see that you have just about finished your breakfasts. Today's agenda includes a tour of the Galactica, lunch, the commissioning ceremony, then a formal dinner. So, if you will follow me. I'll take you over to Dome 3 to tour the Galactica."

Stevens led the Colonials out of the dining room to an underground vehicle park where they boarded several pressurized buses. Once everyone was seated, the drivers drove their buses through a large airlock and into a ten kilometer long tunnel connecting Dome 1 to Dome 3.

Apollo sat quietly with Sheba in the front row of one of the buses for the short ride to Dome 3. All through the trip from Naper to Ceres the Colonials had talked and gossiped freely and the Council members had continued their political discussions informally. For the first few minutes after boarding the bus Apollo could hear some quiet chatter from behind him, but as the bus passed through the airlock into Dome 3 the chatter stopped. Sheba turned to look at her husband and saw his anticipation which she also felt strongly. Indeed she could almost feel that the other passengers on the bus felt the same way. She tried to give her husband a reassuring look while taking his hand.

The inner airlock door opened and the two buses entered Dome 3. After passing through the airlock the buses entered the main part of the dome. A hundred meters ahead of them, across a sea of construction equipment and stacks of disassembled scaffolding, they could see the bulk of the Colonial battlestar. The brand new Alpha Bay faced the assembled guests.

"We'll be getting out in a moment," Admiral Stevens announced over speakers on each bus. "I want to make you aware that the work area in this dome is under Ceres natural gravity. Please exercise caution while moving around from this point on." Up until now the Colonials had only experienced a full Earth gravity. Artificial gravity generators were used on the 727 shuttle, the moon base, the two EDN shuttles, and throughout the EDN Ceres complex. Because of the size of the Galactica and the size of the repair parts needed, the low gravity field of Ceres was ideal for repairing the battlestar.

The doors of the buses then opened. Starbuck and Admiral Stevens led the guests out of the buses and onto the main floor of the dome. Apollo and the rest of the Colonials stood quietly while looking up at the Galactica. They were completely awestruck at the site before them. Apollo could never have imagined that he would ever be standing in shirtsleeves while looking at the full length and breadth of the ship he had called home for over twenty years. The battlestar had an uneven bottom so it rested on a series of form fitting platforms, one under the forward section, one under each launch bay, and one under the drive section. Despite the miniscule gravity of the dwarf planet, the platforms were still massive constructions which were needed to hold up the Galactica's multi-million ton mass.

"It's quite a sight, isn't it," Starbuck said to Apollo and Sheba.

"There's nothing to compare," Apollo replied. "I mean, I've seen the Galactica and other battlestars being repaired in several of the fleet repair stations and I've flown by the Galactica so many times I can't count them, but this..." Apollo waved his hand toward the giant ship across the dome from him.

Admiral Stevens then bounded forward to stand before the crowd. "If you will follow me, we'll take a short tour of the Galactica then we'll have some lunch." He then led the way down a path between work areas towards the aft end of the Alpha Bay. There, semi-permanent bridging was emplaced between the landing deck and the work platform of the dome.

On the short bounding walk and after they had gone inside, Apollo noted that new landing bay. Indeed the whole battlestar had a brand new appearance. All traces of damage and age had been repaired. Stevens and Starbuck pointed out lessons learned over the years had been incorporated into the rebuilding, improved deck crew shelters, backup power generators, multi-redundant atmospheric retention force fields, improved communications, and improved rapid transit for the Viper pilots have been added to both launch bays. Apollo had seen proposals for the updates as part of his duties as senior Colonial Fleet officer and as President of the Council. Again, to see the actual changes in place on the Galactica was stunning. He noted a curtained off area at the far forward end of the bay, and was about to look behind the curtain, but Starbuck held him back and simply said, "Later."

After touring the launch bays, the party was shown the propulsion and power section in the stern of the Galactica. To get there they used the new turbo-lift and turbo-tram service. There Stevens pointed out the refurbished sub-light and supra-light drives and updated power reactors, updated power distribution systems, and updated control systems.

Finally, the tour led to the Galactica's new Combat Information Center. There Steven's showed off the ship's new battle management system and all new weapon and sensor interfaces. The original bridge was maintained as the Viper wing's flight control and maneuvering center for the battlestar. While in the CIC, Starbuck gave a brief overview on the changes to the Galactica's offensive and defensive weaponry. An EDN style Aegis defensive laser turret controller had been integrated into the Galactica's computer system allowing the battlestar and any assigned escorts to coordinate defensive fire. Additional defensive laser turrets had been emplaced to cover all the blind spots in the ship's perimeter.

Stevens led the impressed Colonial guests back to the new Alpha launch bay. There he and Starbuck led Apollo and the others to the curtain concealing the forward section of the bay. After everyone had gathered, Starbuck pulled a lanyard and the curtain fell to reveal a modified Viper fighter.

"I present to you the Viper Two," Starbuck announced proudly while stepping aside. Apollo, Sheba and the other squadron leaders quickly stepped forward to get a closer look at the new fighter.

"We've exchanged the slab-sided canopy with a bubble canopy for greater visibility," Starbuck went on. "We then added a heads-up display, made the stick more multi-functional, no more reaching for controls in the middle of a daggit fight, and we've added the ability to launch four EDN anti-fighter missiles." Apollo and the other Viper pilots all nodded their heads while listening to the changes.

“So,” Starbuck began while addressing Apollo and Sheba. “What do you think of my old Viper?”

“This is your old Viper,” Apollo asked incredulously.

“It sure is,” Starbuck went on. “I’ve been tinkering with it on and off for the last twenty years. A Viper is just too small to integrate all the improvements that we put into the Lightnings and Avengers.”

Apollo heard the other council members talk amongst themselves about how to put the improved Viper into production while his fellow warriors walked around the Viper noting the new changes. Stevens and Starbuck let this go on for a few minutes then announced that it was time for lunch. Stevens led the party back out of the launch bay, across the bridges to the work platforms and onto the main surface of the dome. They then made their way to the dome's cafeteria for the noon meal.

A short time later Stevens and Starbuck, again led their guests back into the work area of the dome, this time they walked to the bow of the Galactica where people, mostly the engineers and workers that had spent the last few years restoring the battlestar to a like new condition, were gathering near a large number of folding chairs. A large podium had been set up at one corner of the ship's bow. There a simple mechanism was set up beside the podium. On either side of the podium were the flag of the Colonies and the Galactica battle flag.

Now, what does that do, Apollo asked himself as he followed Stevens to the VIP seating in the front row of the chairs. Off to one side he could see tables with rows of glasses and a large refrigerator set up. Staff from the cafeteria was standing behind the tables. Stevens and Starbuck made their way over to the podium and activated a microphone.

"Would you all take your seats please," Stevens requested. There was a moment of shuffling as the audience found their seats and sat down.

“Over five hundred years ago,” Stevens began, “this battlestar, the Galactica was launched from the Caprica Fleet shipyard. She and her crew participated in many battles against the Cylons. So many battles it would take hours to list them all. She and her crew acquitted themselves with honor while defending the Colonies from the Cylon menace.

“After the Battle of Cimtar, during the flight from the Colonies, she defended the civilian ships of the Fleet in the Battle of Carillon, the Battle of Otarsis Quadrant, the Battle of Kobol, the Battle of Gamoray, and the Battle at the Galaxy’s Edge. She finally helped to defend the Earth in the Battle of Mars. Sadly, the traitor, Count Baltar, committed one final atrocity against the Colonial people by setting off a suicide nuclear explosive inside the Galactica’s alpha landing bay.

“Since that day of both victory and horror the Galactica has lain here on Ceres. Here she recovered from her grievous wounds and the affects of time.

“Today, the Galactica returns to where she belongs. Not here on the surface of a dwarf planet, but in the depths of space where she can stretch her wings and, again, defend those under her protection.” Stevens paused for a second.

“American tradition currently holds that a prominent woman should be the one to honor a ship as she receives her name at the time of launch. The Galactica has a name, but she has laid so long here on Ceres that her name should be re-confirmed. Would Siress Uri and Captain Sheba please come up here and join me.”

The two woman each gave their husbands a ‘why me’ look while standing. A moment later they were on the platform with Admiral Stevens. Stevens retrieved a bottle from within the podium.

“After the Galactica was set down here on Ceres,” Stevens started, “a complete inventory was performed to make sure all personal property was given to their owners while any military property was set aside for storage or repair. During that search we learned that many of the warrior survival kits on each Viper contained a water bottle. After examining the packaging for these bottles we learned that we have a selection of water from each of the twelve colonies. Navy tradition holds that a ship should be wetted during her commissioning with her homeland’s waters.”

Stevens retrieved eleven more one liter bottles from below the podium. He then withdrew a single bottle of California sparkling wine

“Navy tradition also holds that a ship launching is a celebration and that the ship should also be given a drink.” He placed the wine bottle in the mechanism behind the podium.

“Ladies, if you wish to say anything at this time, you may,” Stevens said while stepping away from the microphone.

Siress Uri and Sheba looked at each other. Sheba nodded her assent. Siress Uri stepped up to the microphone.

“Thank you, Admiral Stevens, for this rare opportunity,” she began. “The Colonial Fleet does not have a comparable ceremony to this and I appreciate your leading us through yours. Yes, the Galactica deserves the respect that she and her crews have earned.” She picked up a water bottle, quickly read which colony the water had come from, and opened it.

“I can only hope that someday the Galactica will lead our people back to the Colonies to reclaim our home worlds.” She then poured the water over the nearest section of hull plating of the Galactica. The water slowly dripped down to the bow’s support platform below. “For Taura,” she finished softly.

Sheba then stepped forward and took one of the water bottles. “I wish to echo Siress Uri thoughts.” She looked up again at the Galactica. “The Cylons will return to the Earth to try to finish what they started on the Colonies, the extermination of Mankind. I will do my part to ensure that doesn’t happen.” She then poured out her bottle on the Galactica’s hull. “For Leo,” she concluded. Siress Uri and Sheba then took turns emptying the water bottles onto the Galactica. Each time they cited the name of one of the colonies.

Stevens stepped back to the microphone, looked quickly over his shoulder at the Galactica, and back down towards the guests.

“Today, the Galactica returns to the stars where she belongs. May she inspire all who fight on her or with her and may the Cylons tremble with fear at the sight of her.” He took one hand from each of the two women with him and placed them on the activation lever of the mechanism. He then pressed the release. The bottle of wine was then smashed against the hull of the Galactica. Frothy wine, bubbles flying everywhere in the low gravity, was spread all over the bow of the ship. At the same time corks were pulled from several more bottles of sparkling wine by the stewards at the tables. The American assembled among the guests raised a cheer as they stood to their feet.

“Hip, hip, hurray,” they called three times. One of the stewards started some recorded classical music.

“Please join me for a drink,” Stevens called as he stepped down from the podium and bounded over to the tables being stocked with glasses of sparkling wine.

While the guests enjoyed their drink celebrating the rebirth of the Galactica, work crews and a small staff of Navy officers and technicians boarded the Galactica. They began the process of bringing the battlestar back to life.

A short while later the guests retreated to the Dome 3 operations center. There they had their eyes glued to a set of large flat screen monitors. The Dome had been evacuated and the atmosphere pumped into storage tanks.

“Power levels are at 100 percent. Maneuvering and main propulsion are on standby,” they heard announced from the bridge of the Galactica over a radio connection.

“We’re opening the roof,” a technician called back while activating a switch. On a monitor out on the surface of Ceres the guests could see the camouflaged roof of the crater begin to rise and split apart slowly as giant hydraulic units pushed the pressure bearing panels upward and outward. Once the doors were completely open other hydraulic units began to lift the Galactica up and out of the dome. Slowly the battlestar was raised out of the dome. Once the ship was completely clear of the dome’s walls the lifts stopped.

“Galactica, you are now clear for take-off,” a technician announced from the operations center.

“Very well,” replied the radio operator on the Galactica.

After a moment lights began to flare from the battlestar’s maneuvering propulsion units. The guests could feel a faint rumbling through the floor of the operations center. The Galactica slowly lifted herself off of the platforms she had lain on for so long. Then the ship’s nose pitched up and the Galactica began moving forward and upwards away from the surface of Ceres, back into space where she belonged.

Chapter 5 – 14 June 2010

After launching, the temporary crew on board the Galactica placed the ship into a parallel solar orbit not far from Ceres. Then they gave the ship a slight roll and yaw to mimic the motion of a random asteroid.

After the launch the members of the Council of the Twelve, including Apollo excused themselves from the Dome 3 control center and took over a nearby meeting room. There they called the Council into session. The other Colonial guests, the Council member’s wives and the Colonial officers, were escorted back to the main dome of Ceres base by EDN officers. The Viper pilots were glad to know that some of their EDN escorts were from the F-1 Lightning squadron now assigned to the Ceres base.

During that time the Ceres base officer’s club dining room and an adjacent bar were set up for the evening’s banquet. At four-o-clock the Council session adjourned so that the members could prepare themselves for the formal banquet. Apollo and the rest of the council members quickly made their way back to the main dome and their temporary quarters. Apollo found his wife in their rooms putting on her dress uniform. He donned his own blue dress uniform, including the cape, while she was putting the finishing touches to her hair and makeup.

A knock on their door announced the arrival of Admiral Stevens.

“Would you like to accompany me to the Officer’s Club for a drink before we dine?” Stevens asked formally.

“We would enjoy that,” Apollo replied. A few minutes later they were at the club’s bar area where they joined the other Colonial and EDN guests for cocktails. Stevens, Apollo, Sheba, and Starbuck then sat down at a reserved table to enjoy their drinks. Conversations flowed around them. Topics ranged from ‘what’s for dinner’ to ‘I can’t wait to get back on board the Galactica’. All those in the bar area could hear a live military band practicing in the dining room.

“What news is there from the Council meeting,” Stevens’ asked after ordering the first round of drinks.

“Sire Uri will make an announcement during the banquet,” Apollo said with a sheepish grin. Sheba and Stevens immediately guessed what that announcement could be.

“I’m so proud, honey,” she immediately said.

“Congratulations,” Stevens added.

A few minutes later the band started playing ‘Attention.’ Shortly after that a uniformed drummer and a fifer playing a colonial America era song led the Chef and a kitchen assistant who were carrying a large platter of roast beef into the bar area, stopping in front of Admiral Stevens table.

“Roast beef of Old England,” the Chef announced loudly while the assistant cut a small piece from the giant roast, placed it on a saucer, and offered the saucer and a fork to Stevens. He took a bite while Apollo and Sheba looked on with bemused looks on their faces. In fact, conversation had stopped in the bar. All the guests in the bar were watching. The EDN officers all had amused grins.

“This meat is fit for consumption,” Stevens loudly replied.

“Dinner will be served in ten minutes,” the Chef then announced. The drummer, fifer, Chef, and his assistant then marched in step with the same song back to the kitchen with the platter of meat.

“We’ll go into the dining room when the band starts up again,” Stevens said to those at his table.

“It seems like some very old traditions are being used this evening,” Sheba said.

“You are correct,” Stevens replied. “This kind of banquet is called a Dining Out. The tradition comes from mother England long before the United States became a nation. All of the armed services of the US have dining in and dining out traditions.”

“What’s the difference,” Apollo asked.

“A dining in has no guests while a dining out does; such as spouses and civilians. A dining in can get a bit lively as the practical joking can get out of hand. A dining out is more formal.”

The band in the dining room started up again playing ‘Officer’s Call.’ Stevens and Starbuck both stood.

“Please join us in the dining room,” Stevens asked loudly as the other EDN officers also stood. “There are places at the head table for the Council members and their spouses. Please consult the seating chart and the placards on the tables for the other seating assignments.” He then led Starbuck, Apollo, and Sheba into the dining room.

It took a few minutes for the guests and participants to find their seats. At the center of the head table was a small podium. Stevens sat to the right of the podium. Apollo was seated to Stevens’ right and Sheba was to Apollo’s right. Sire Uri was to the left of the podium and Uri’s wife was to his left. The pattern was repeated for the other Council members and their wives. A table on the main floor was reserved for all the other Colonial officers, while two others were for the EDN officers and Ceres base civilians.

While the guests were finding their seats the band switched to playing ‘Anchors Aweigh.’ The EDN and Colonial guests remained standing as they saw Stevens, Apollo and Sheba standing behind their seats at the head table.

Momentarily the band finished playing. “The mess night to honor the return to service of the Battlestar Galactica is now open; ladies and gentlemen, the grace.”

The Ceres base chaplain then stepped before the high table and turned to face the guest tables. “Please bow your heads,” he began. “Lord, creator of all things, please bless this gathering and the food we are about to eat. Please watch over us as we enjoy this time together as you watch over all of your children. We ask these things in the name of your son, our savior. Amen.”

“Seats,” Stevens called loudly. The attendees of the dinner took their seats as the band started up again. They started with a Glenn Miller tune. Casual conversation started up while the kitchen staff started bringing out the meal. First they distributed appetizers, portabella mushrooms stuffed with Italian herbs and cheese, while others filled up the water and wine glasses. The first wine of the evening was a cabernet sauvignon.

A short while later the staff noticed that most of the appetizers had been consumed. They began distributing green salads with Italian vinaigrette dressing fresh from the moon base’s gardens while others refilled the wine and water glasses.

Again, the staff waited until most had eaten their salads, then they began to bring out the main course, the traditional roast beef with baked potatoes, steamed mixed vegetables, and dinner rolls. The men fell to eating their meals with gusto. During the long flight to Earth beef, or bovine as they called it, was extremely rare. It was only available for an extremely high price on the resort ship, the Rising Star. Beef became immediately and extremely popular after the fleet’s peoples were settled in South Dakota and Nebraska. Especially since those states were known for raising cattle.

Many of the female guests, Sheba included, groaned inwardly at the quantity of food and drink being offered to them. Sheba looked askance at her husband and patted her belly.

“Too much,” she whispered to him while hiding her lips with a wine glass.

He winked back at her and stuffed a bite of meat into his mouth, slightly enjoying his wife’s discomfort. Most of the wives of the council members were older than Sheba and had let their figures go; even they were having a hard time keeping up with their husbands and the extremely fit EDN officers.

Their metabolisms are probably still in high gear, Sheba moaned inwardly as she swore to herself to increase her exercise regimen, at least temporarily.

Finally, to Sheba’s relief, a bowl of fresh cantaloupe, honeydew, and water melon was served as the dessert.

Admiral Stevens, as the mess president, examined the dining room ten minutes later and noted that most people had finished eating. Some were leaning back in their chairs to give some relief to their full stomachs. He then signaled with his fork for the staff to clear the tables, which they quickly did. At the same time they placed clean wine glasses and decanters of port, the second wine of the evening, on the tables. Stevens then motioned for the band to stop playing. He then rose from his seat.

“Mr., Vice,” he announced loudly, “To his Excellency, the President of the Twelve Colonies of Man.”

Starbuck rose from his seat, raised his wine glass and said, “Ladies and Gentlemen, His Excellency, The President of the Twelve Colonies of Man.”

All the EDN officers, the Ceres base civilians, and a few Colonial ones that had read the program or had otherwise caught on stood up with their glasses. “His Excellency, The President of the Twelve Colonies of Man,” they said in unison. Then they all drank a toast to Apollo. The band then played the Anthem of the Colonies. After the anthem was played, all the attendees sat back down.

Starbuck then picked up a small oil lamp whose wick was already burning, and carried it to the head table and placed it before Admiral Stevens. Stevens passed Apollo a cigar and then the lit lamp.

“It’s ok if you don’t want to smoke,” Stevens said in a soft voice.

“That’s ok,” Apollo replied just as softly while picking up the cigar. He then leaned down with the cigar in his mouth and tried to light the cigar. He succeeded in a couple of small puffs then quickly placed the cigar in the ash tray. Stevens, who was also a non-smoker, took a couple of ceremonial puffs of his own cigar and set it down.

“The smoking lamp is lit,” Stevens announced. Starbuck then quickly returned to his seat. A formal mess being one of the few occasions he was allowed to smoke, Starbuck quickly lit his own cigar, and with a wide smile on his face, began to savor its fresh taste. Starbuck was not smoking alone. Several other EDN and Colonial officers lit their own cigars. Small clouds of blue smoke quickly formed and, just as quickly, were sucked away by the ventilation system.

Noting Starbuck’s behavior, Stevens leaned over towards Apollo. “The things we have to do for our men,” he said softly.

“Indeed,” Apollo replied with a wry grin. He noted that his son Boxey, seated at the Colonial officer’s table was studying the official program for the mess night. Boxey then stood up and faced the head table.

“Mr. President, I have a point of order,” he said.

“Lieutenant Boxey, Colonial Fleet,” Stevens replied after standing.

“Mr. President, to the Commander In Chief of the Earth Defense Navy,” Boxey said.

As Admiral Stevens was the commanding officer of the EDN, Starbuck stood up for the toast.

“Ladies and Gentlemen, the Commander In Chief of the Earth Defense Navy,” he said. Having caught on, the Colonial officers and civilians joined with the EDN officers and civilians.

“The Commander In Chief of the Earth Defense Navy,” they toasted in unison. Stevens nodded his thanks as the assembly took a sip from their glass.

An EDN officer then stood up and faced the head table.

“Mr. President, I have a point of order,” he said.

“Lieutenant Anderson,” Stevens replied after standing.

“Mr. President, to the Earth Defense Navy Marine Corps,” Anderson said.

Stevens stood up with his glass. “Ladies and Gentlemen, the Earth Defense Navy Marine Corps,” he said.

“The Earth Defense Navy Marine Corps,” all the attendees toasted in unison. The band then played the Marine Corps Hymn, “The Halls of Montezuma”

“Ladies and gentlemen,” Stevens began after the hymn concluded. “This concludes the first portion of this evening’s Dining Out. The Mess will recess for ten minutes and will reconvene at the tables.”

Casual conversation erupted as many of the attendees headed towards the restrooms. Ten minutes later the band began to play big band music again signaling that the mess should reconvene in the dining room. Once everyone was settled and seated Admiral Stevens stood up, this time behind the podium.

“Good evening,” he began. “I want to welcome you to our Mess Night and I hope that you are all enjoying this special occasion. I want to particularly welcome Colonial President Apollo, his lovely wife Sheba. I also want to give our sincere welcome to the other Colonial Council members and their spouses; Sire and Siress Uri, Sire and Siress Anton, Sire and Siress Antipas, Sire and Siress Montrose, Sire and Siress Gellar, Siress Tinia, Sire and Siress Domra, Siress Blassie, Sire and Sires Barnabus, Sire and Siress Malik, and Sire and Siress Dabir. Welcome also to the officers of the Colonial Fleet. We appreciate your coming here to witness the re-commissioning of your great ship and to share this fine dinner with us.

“Now, the man sitting next to me needs no introduction, yet much can be said about him and his accomplishments as a Colonial Fleet officer, Viper pilot and politician. I give you the President of the Council of the Twelve, Apollo.” Stevens clapped his hands, the mess following his example, as Apollo stood up. Stevens returned to his seat while Apollo addressed th e mess from the podium.

“Thank you, Admiral Stevens,” he began. “It is indeed a great honor to be here with all of you on this occasion. Today is a day of rebirth, first for the last Colonial Battlestar, the Galactica, but also for the Colonial Fleet. This day has been a long time coming.

“With the restoration of the Galactica, most Colonial Fleet members will be returning to active duty. It is time for the Colonial Fleet to share in the responsibility of protecting the Earth from the Cylons.

“In addition, The Council has approved the future production of additional ships for the Colonial Fleet. They will need crews too. To that end, Sire Uri has some announcements to make. The esteemed Sire Uri,” Apollo announced while stepping aside and applauding.

Uri stood and stepped behind the podium. “Thank you, President Apollo. Today, the Council of the Twelve met just after the launching of the Galactica. You already know of one decision that was made, the approval of production of additional ships for the Colonial Fleet. The Fleet will need new officers and crews. The Fleet will also need a new leader. President Apollo, you are the highest ranking officer currently in the Fleet. The Council has approved your promotion to Commander, congratulations.”

The mess erupted in applause at the announcement. Once the applause settled down Uri continued.

“There are other promotions to announce,” he said. “The new First Officer of the Galactica will be Colonel Omega.”

Omega, the Galactica’s long suffering flight officer, looked up in surprise. Finally he was being given a command position and, with the future production of new ships, the possibility of commanding his own ship, maybe even a new battlestar. He half rose from his chair and bowed his thanks to the Council.

“The new wing commander for the Galactica’s squadrons will be Colonel Bojay, congratulations,” Uri announced. Again, the mess applauded for Bojay’s good fortune. Wing commander was not a traditional Colonial Fleet position. Yet, with Apollo’s long tenure in that position on the Galactica and with the EDNs example, the position was now permanent. The former Battlestar Pegasus strike leader, a smile firmly planted on his face, signaled his thanks to the Council.

“Serving under Colonel Bojay as the new leader of Blue Squadron will be Captain Boxey.”

Apollo’s adopted son stood, gave his parents a wide grin, and saluted his thanks to the rest of the Council.

“For Green Squadron, Lieutenant Tobias is promoted to Captain,” Uri went on. Again, the mess applauded the promotion.

“There are other promotions,” Uri went on, “but the recipients are not present here.” Uri turned to Apollo. “President and Commander Apollo, you have the earned trust of the Colonial people. May the Lords of Kobol bless your command of the Galactica. Again, congratulations.” Uri stepped down. Admiral Stevens replaced Uri at the podium.

“The floor is now open for informal toasts,” he announced then he sat down again.

Several informal toasts were given by various EDN officers. They ranged from someone bringing their drink in from the bar prior to the meal which earned the offender a trip to the grog bowl to a presentation of a box of cigars to Captain Starbuck for his service to the EDN over the years. Once the informal toasts were completed Admiral Stevens raised his glass of wine.

“Ladies and gentlemen, to the Earth Defense Navy,” he toasted.

Starbuck brought a carafe of wine to the head table and filled all the guests’ glasses again. He then turned to face the mess. All the EDN officers stood. The rests of the guests followed suit, knowing a toast was being made.

“To the Earth Defense Navy,” Starbuck called out loudly. He then drank all the wine remaining in his glass; bottoms up. The band again played, “Anchors Aweigh.”

Stevens then addressed the mess again a final time. “I want to thank President Apollo, the rest of the Council of the Twelve, the officers of the Colonial Fleet and their wives for being our guests this mess night. Captain Starbuck, we appreciate your making this mess night a success. I hope all of you have enjoyed spending the evening with us. Will you join me at the bar?” He then led the way out of the dining room.

Chapter 6 – 2 July 2010

San Francisco, California, USA

It was almost ten in the morning on a fairly nice day. A large cabin cruiser worked its way slowly through the chop at the entrance to San Francisco bay. The Golden Gate Bridge loomed ahead of them. The crew on the cruiser, a married couple, dedicated to their cause, knew their destination. They were to dock just south of pier 40 in South Beach Harbor.

Two days earlier, the cruiser and its crew were screened in San Diego by the US Coast Guard. Of course no contraband was detected. The crew, as were all the crews assigned to the project, was specifically directed that they were not to carry any alcohol or drugs. Also they were only to carry enough cash in dollars and enough food and other items for personal consumption only. No suspicion was to be raised about them. Fake passports from various countries had been issued to the many crews involved in the project. Bank accounts and credit cards issued to the IDs on the fake passports were also created. Nor were these accounts abused so no suspicion could be raised. This particular crew was listed as from Puerto Vallarta, Mexico, though in reality they were from Beirut, Lebanon.

By ten forty-five, the crew had docked their boat in South Beach Harbor. Weeks ago they had signed up for dock based power and telephone lines. These were now connected to their boat. The leader of the team, the husband, descended into the main salon of the cruiser and turned on his laptop computer. Once it was booted up he connected it to the telephone line and logged onto his e-mail service.

“Pablo,

“We’re down at the harbor. When are you coming to pick us up?

“Juan”

‘Juan’ encrypted the message using a hard to decipher commercial program and sent it to a recently created Yahoo e-mail account. The reply came a minute later.

“Juan,

“We’ll be there soon. As you know, the appointment is for 11:00.

“Pablo”

‘Juan’ read after deciphering it.

“It won’t be long now,” ‘Juan’ told his wife. “Everything is on schedule.” He hugged his wife, and then they took out their prayer rugs, aligned them to Mecca, and knelt down to pray. Fifteen minutes later their prayers were answered, but not how they imagined they would be.


North American Aerospace Defense Command, Cheyenne Mountain, Colorado, USA

The US Air Force Master Sergeant stretched his arms above his head. So far it had been an uneventful day at NORAD’s command center buried deep below the granite monolith of Cheyenne Mountain. The ongoing conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan were concerns, but they had no real impact to the integrity of North American airspace. It was noon and the Master Sergeant was looking forward to going to get his lunch, but his relief had not come in yet. Then alarms lit themselves up on his console. Several of the Defense Support Program satellites, ones that looked over North America, Europe, and Southeast Asia had detected something. He quickly got onto the intercom.

“DSP satellites eleven, seventeen and twenty are reporting multiple thermal events,” he announced as calmly as he could, though a slight quaver had entered his voice as he looked further in to the information being received from the satellites.

“Plot the locations on the big board,” the commander in chief of NORAD, a US Navy admiral, ordered using the intercom from his perch above and behind the various radar and satellite monitoring stations within the command center. The Master Sergeant quickly sent the information from the satellites to the main plotting screen while continuing his analysis.

“All indicated locations show double pulse signatures of nuclear detonations,” the Master Sergeant added.

All in the command center could see the red splotches over various coastal cities in North America, Europe, and Southeast Asia. In North America detonations were shown in Seattle, San Francisco, Los Angeles, San Diego, New Orleans, Washington D.C., New York, and Montreal. In Europe there were detonations in London, Edinburgh, Paris, Amsterdam, Hamburg, Copenhagen, Oslo, Stockholm, Lisbon, Rome, and Athens. In Southeast Asia the explosions were in Melbourne, Sydney and Auckland. Finally, a single explosion occurred in Haifa, Israel.

“I want yield and detailed location data for each indication,” the admiral ordered while picking up his Gold Telephone; his direct line to the White House. There was no reply at the other end of the phone, so he picked up one of his Red Telephones which connected him immediately to the commander of the U.S. Strategic Command at Offutt Air Force Base in Omaha, Nebraska.

“Satellite data shows an initial estimate of yield for each event at approximately one hundred and fifty kilotons,” the Master Sergeant announced.

That’s consistent with two stage thermonuclear devices, the admiral thought. He relayed the information to the commander of Strategic Command.

The Air Force General in charge of the US Strategic Command listened carefully to the commander of NORAD who was also CINC of Northern Command, the commander of all homeland defenses. He was not in his command center, which was buried several levels underground beneath his office building, but in his normal office. If he were there he would be seeing much of the same information as the commander in NORAD was seeing. He thanked the commander of NORAD and set that particular Red Telephone down and picked up a differently labeled Red Telephone, one that led directly to his command center.

“By orders of NorthCom,” he began after the command center duty officer answered, “all StratCom units are to go to DEFCON One.” He then got up and began the short trip down to his command center.

At the NORAD command center, the admiral picked up the intercom. “Set all NorthCom forces at DEFCON 1,” he ordered. “Be advised, StratCom is also at DEFCON 1,” he added. Since all the explosions were at ground or sea level the electromagnetic pulse from each explosion only affected the local area, he thought. Most satellite and ground based communications should remain intact.

“I want someone monitoring the Internet news sites and Aljazeera,” he ordered. “This is probably the act of terrorists. Someone or some group will probably announce that they were responsible for this attack and make a list of demands.” Al-Qaida must have hit us again, he thought while several of the technicians turned on internet browsers and began monitoring several common news sites.

Then alarms sounded throughout the room. “We’re at DEFCON 1,” an officer announced over the intercom while the DEFCON indicator changed.

“A statement is being shown on Aljazeera,” someone else in the command center announced.

“Put it on the big screen,” the admiral ordered. One corner of the big plotting screen was quickly replaced by feed from the Aljazeera television network’s website.

“Al-Qaida announces that the final jihad against the West is now under way. Allah, may His name be praised, has blessed the Muslim peoples with the means of accomplishing this jihad. We call upon all our Muslim brothers throughout the West to rise up against the infidels while they are paralyzed by our attack while we will begin our own attacks against the infidels. The Great Satan and the Lesser Satan have now been brought low. They will not be able to interfere with the establishment of the New Righteous Caliphate. Allah the Merciful will bless those who participate in this holy and righteous jihad against the Crusader Nations.”

While all this was going on, one of the NORAD technicians, also a Master Sergeant made a quick phone call to his wife. She then called her sister in Naper, Nebraska. The message then was relayed to EDN headquarters on the moon base.

Chapter 7 – 2 July 2010

Colonial Vipers and Cylon Raiders swarmed around each other in a dance of death not far from Neptune’s moon Triton. The Galactica, with an EDN escort squadron, had intercepted the Cylons, and their base ship, before they could launch a strike against Earth.

“Blue Three,” Captain Boxey called. “You have a pinwheel forming on you, evade.”

The unfortunate colonial warrior, newly assigned to Blue Squadron from the Training Squadron, thumbed his turbo boosters, but not in time to avoid the attack.

“Gotcha,” Captain Starbuck called from the lead Cylon fighter involved in the pinwheel attack as he fired his lasers at Blue Three’s Viper.

“Frack,” the ensign called as he saw his MILES (Multiple Integrated Laser Engagement System) indicator light up with a blinking red light. He reduced his speed and flew his Viper back to the Galactica. A computer on board the battlestar was keeping a record of Vipers that were simulated as either damaged or destroyed. Another computer on board the Lexington, the EDNs Aggressor Squadron’s home base for the exercise, was keeping a similar record. Meanwhile, the remaining Vipers continued their engagement against the Aggressor Squadron.

The Aggressor Squadron used mock Cylon Raiders built on an F-1 Lightning frame. The flight characteristics of the Lightning were very similar to a Raider. This allowed the Aggressor Squadron to be used for highly realistic training of, first the EDN squadrons, and now the Colonials.

Commander’s Log: 2 July 2010

“This morning we began our first fleet exercise,” Apollo began his daily log entry. “We were assigned an escort group from the EDN and operated against their Lexington task force. We were assigned to defend Neptune’s moon Triton from a mock Cylon attack. To make things more interesting the EDN used what they call their Aggressor Squadron; a squadron of mock Cylon Raiders. We managed to achieve a bloody draw. Our warriors are getting back into fighting shape. A few more exercises like this one and I’ll be willing to match our warriors against the Cylons again.

“Colonel Bojay is driving himself, and the warriors, hard to get them back into shape after their nearly five year vacation. Even Sheba has complained a little about how hard he is working the warriors. Still, the hard work is starting to show. In previous exercises the EDN handed our warriors several defeats. Now, they are getting their confidence back. They make me proud.”

During the previous month, after the re-commissioning and launch of the Galactica, Apollo and the Council had worked hard to recruit a crew for the ship. First, he had recalled from reserve duty all the officers and enlisted personnel still on the Fleet’s rolls. Many of the long serving, though older personnel had returned to duty. Yet, many of the more recently recruited, younger personnel, those who had enlisted during the exodus from the Colonies, had separated from Colonial service. Apollo and the Council then set up a recruitment drive to replace them. While the recruitment drive was underway, the recalled veterans with support from the EDN gave the rebuilt battlestar a strenuous shakedown cruise. After the Galactica had passed every test that the Chief Engineer and his staff could come up with Apollo had declared the Galactica operational and fully returned to active duty. While the balance of the crew was recruited from the Colonial remnant, the Galactica began formal service with a mixed, though mostly Colonial, crew.

Apollo stood up from his desk. He again looked around his and Sheba’s, formerly his father’s, quarters. Father, I wish you were here, he again thought. Then he made his way to the new CIC (Combat Information Center).

Colonel Omega stepped over to Apollo as he entered.

“Commander, the EDN Escorts have departed back to the moon base.”

“Thank you, Colonel,” Apollo replied. “We’ll stay here at Neptune for the time being. I want Colonel Bojay to conduct further training of the squadrons well away from the prying eyes of the Earth’s telescopes and probes.”

“I’ll inform Bojay,” Omega replied. He then stepped over to the new internal communications station in the CIC to have a message sent.

“Incoming message from EDN headquarters,” the technician announced from the adjacent external communications station, which superseded the old Colonial Fleet Comline.

“What does it say,” Apollo asked as he joined Omega by the communication stations.

“Oh my god,” the technician said softly before going on, “there have been nuclear detonations on Earth.”

“Lords of Kobol,” Apollo exclaimed while his face paled.

The technician printed the message out and handed it to Apollo. He began reading it while Omega looked over the shoulder of the technician to read the message on the monitor.

“Admiral Stevens says that there is no immediate threat to our civilians,” Apollo said while reading. “He says that full radiation protection protocols are being enacted to protect them. He requests an urgent meeting to discuss this event.”

Omega looked up from his reading. A worried look was spread across his face. All through the years of being the Galactica’s lead Flight Officer he had never pursued a mate. During the five years since settling on Earth, in Herrick, SD, he had married. Just recently he and his wife were blessed with a daughter. He prayed a quick, silent prayer asking God to protect his family and the rest of the Colonials there.

“I’ll order a shuttle prepared,” he said.

“The crew needs to be informed; all senior officers are to meet in the wardroom in fifteen centons,” Apollo ordered.

“I’ll make the announcement,” Omega replied. He then turned to the internal communications station. A moment later the announcement was sent out over the ship-wide intercom. During the reconstruction Apollo had accepted the suggestion from the EDN shipwrights to make changes to the battlestar’s interior layout. One of the changes was to create an officer’s dining room in the same style as on EDN ships. The wardroom was separate from the Viper pilots’ ready room, formerly the officer’s club. It was located closer to the Bridge and CIC. Comparatively, the pilot’s ready room was located further aft to facilitate the Warriors quick deployment to their fighters. Living spaces were also rearranged so that all junior officers were quartered two to a room and all officers ranked Captain and above had private, though small, rooms.

At the appointed time Apollo entered the Galactica’s new wardroom. Omega was still in CIC so Colonel Bojay was senior officer present.

“Attention,” he ordered loudly as Apollo came in the door. The loud murmuring of the officers present immediately stopped.

“As you were,” Apollo quickly ordered as he made his way to the center of the room. He could see that, except for Omega and the current flight officer, Rigel, who was on the bridge, and his son Boxey, who was still conducting flight operations, he had most of senior officers present. Bojay and the other squadron leaders were present along with the Chief Engineer, the Flight Deck Division leader, the Chief Medical Officer, and most of the others.

“I called you here because of some grave news from Earth,” Apollo began. “Over twenty Western cities have suffered nuclear explosions. The USA received the most, with seven cities destroyed. EDN Intelligence believes that these are the result of terrorist actions. There is no immediate threat to the Tri-Cities, but we may have lost a few of our loved ones who may have been traveling or away on business in the attack. The EDN has begun a radiation protection protocol for all residents of the Tri-Cities. I will be leaving in a few centons to fly to the moon base to discuss this attack. You are authorized to brief those personnel in your squadrons or crew divisions. Colonel Omega will be in command and will be available to answer your questions during my absence. Now, you know as much as I do. I’ll brief you again after I return from the meeting. You may return to your duties.”

As Apollo turned to leave the wardroom worried conversations broke out amongst the Galactica’s officers and the few kitchen staff that overheard Apollo announcement. Sheba quickly stepped up to Apollo as he was leaving.

“I’m worried about the family,” she said. Ruth and her full brother Zac had requested to remain on reserve status from the Colonial service right after the announcement of the recall. They were both still perusing their college studies and wanted to finish their degrees before returning to service.

“I’m worried too,” Apollo replied. He led her out into the corridor and gave her a quick kiss. “I’ll be back as soon as I can.” He gave her a final kiss before leaving her to go to the launch bay where his shuttle was waiting.

Chapter 8 – 2 July 2010

It took several hours for Apollo’s shuttle to make the trip from Neptune to the Moon. After landing he was immediately escorted by a shocked EDN marine to the base’s executive conference room. There he saw Admiral Stevens, Captain Starbuck who had just flown in from the Lexington, and two others whom he would soon learn were Ron and Mark Davis, waiting for him. The conference room had a central table and chairs. At one end of the room was a flat screen monitor connected to a computer sitting at the head of the table. That is where Mark Davis was seated.

“Come in, Mr. President,” Admiral Stevens said while waving toward a seat at the conference table.

“I’m sorry it took so long,” Apollo replied while sitting and nodding a hello to Starbuck. All there knew how long the trip from Neptune would be despite Apollo’s shuttle spending most of the trip at light-speed. He had not been introduced to the Davis brothers.”I wish circumstances were different.”

“Indeed,” Stevens replied. “These gentlemen are Ron and Mark Davis. They are the other half of the leadership for the EDN and Colonial Industries.”

“Ron’s son Steve was the first person I met on Earth,” Starbuck quickly added.

“Ah, yes I remember you telling me about that,” Apollo asked while sticking his hand out. “I’m pleased to meet you.”

“Likewise,” Ron replied while shaking Apollo’s hand, Earth style.

“Hello,” Mark said while shaking Apollo’s hand in turn.

“We have a lot to talk about,” Stevens said. “First of all, what needs to be done to ensure the safety of our personnel on Earth; second, the attack and Al-Qaeda’s demands; and third, any response to the attack we can make under these circumstances.”

“Your message said that you have enacted a radiation protection protocol in the Tri-Cities,” Apollo said. “Please explain that.”

“That means,” Ron Davis replied, “that Iodine tablets have been distributed to prevent Thyroid Gland damage and shelters have been set up in the Tri-Cities; Naper, St. Charles, and Herrick, to protect them from any fallout, radioactive particles left over from the nuclear devices, that might blow in over the next few weeks.

“Do you know if the explosions were aerial or on the ground,” Apollo asked.

“We’ve learned while you and Starbuck were flying here that all the explosions were on the ground or water,” Stevens replied.

“Then there will be more fallout than from airbursts,” Mark Davis said.

“The shelters will still protect our people,” Ron said.

“Not, quite,” Stevens added. “We have people in other locations across America and I am sure that some of the Colonials are traveling or have moved on to other places since the settlement.”

“We’ve been in contact with our people that were not in target cities,” Ron added. “We may have lost those in the targeted cities. I’ve instructed our people to send out search parties for those who haven’t checked in.”

“As you said, I’m sure we lost a few too,” Apollo said sadly. “Still, most of our people are safe for the time being. Likewise, I would like to contact the rest of the Council of the Twelve. I’ll have them coordinate a search for the missing.”

“That leads us to our second subject, Al-Queda and the attack,” Stevens said. “What do we now know of the attack?”

“We know that 23 nuclear explosions occurred in as many cities around the world,” Mark Davis began while activating the conference room’s computer screen. “All of them were in the advanced democratic nations of Europe, the America’s, and Australia, plus Israel.” He brought up a map showing the locations of the target cities. “As was just mentioned, all of the explosions were ground bursts. We assume that the nuclear devices were somehow smuggled into the target nations and cities.” He changed to a second picture. “Going back, this is the expected fallout foot prints based on current weather forecasts and US Department of Defense fallout analyses.”

“These are almost all coastal cities,” Apollo observed.

“Or the cities have major waterways in them,” Stevens added. “Yes, we noticed this. You are assuming that all the devices were smuggled by sea. This does not rule out smuggling of the explosives by other routes.”

Mark Davis changed the image on the computer screen. “This is the statement issued by Al-Qaeda not minutes after the first explosion occurred.”

Apollo and Starbuck quickly read the text on the screen. The others waited patiently as they had already read the statement.

“It is clear from this statement,” Ron began, “that they want nothing less than world domination under Islam and the destruction of The West and Western Culture or cultures.”

“I see,” Apollo replied. “The Council has been concerned with the global terrorism conflict over recent years. We saw that this kind of attack was possible, but very unlikely.”

“As did EDN Intelligence,” Mark Davis added. “Now, what can we do about it?”

“We have a firm directive from the Angels on the Ship of Lights not to interfere with the natural course of events on Earth,” Stevens said.

“Then is there anything that we can do,” Apollo asked while remembering that Starbuck also had told him of the restriction by the advanced beings or angels on the Ship of Lights.

“I have directed that Colonial Industries work with the US federal, state, or local governments to provide aid for those we can immediately help,” Ron Davis announced. “Beyond that our hands are tied.”

Conversation paused for a minute as Stevens sat up straighter in his chair. “Apollo,” he began. “We talked about this before you came in. We feel that we can no longer ensure your people’s security on Earth.”

“I see,” Apollo replied slowly while thinking of the consequences. Do we evacuate? Where do we go? What will the EDN do?

“There is some good news, however. We want to show you something,” Stevens said while the other started smiling.

Stevens slid over two pictures of what looked like the Earth from high orbit. Stapled behind each were a few sheets of paper. Mark brought the same two pictures up on the computer screen.

“What are these,” Apollo asked. He first thought they were of the Earth then his trained eye showed him that the two pictures were not of the Earth at all.

“Those are our heritage, courtesy of the 13th Tribe,” Stevens announced. “They are the two, now habitable planets of the Alpha Centauri system, the nearest system to Earth’s. The 13th Tribe terraformed the two planets either right before or right after coming to the Earth to settle. The Saratoga task force has been surveying the system. The initial survey results are attached to the pictures.”

Apollo eyed the four others critically. “It is obvious that you are leading me to a conclusion,” he said.

“You are right,” Mark Davis joined in. “The situation on Earth is pretty grim. All the Western countries are essentially paralyzed by the attack. Many, including the US, have lost their governments. Europe is in turmoil. Our orbital observations show massive rioting in England, Belgium, the Netherlands, France, Germany, and in Israel. We’ve detected military mobilizations in all countries attacked. We’ve also detected mobilization in several Middle Eastern countries including Syria, Egypt, Turkey, Iran, Kuwait, and Saudi Arabia. There is the possibility of massive retaliation against the Muslim states by any of the Western nuclear powers; the US, UK, or France. There is also the possibility of further nuclear strikes against the West or Israel. Israel is sure to retaliate against their neighboring countries should any of them mount an invasion or provide overt support to their Palestinian population. We don’t know what will happen because most of the attacks occurred in Western capital cities and those country’s governments have been decapitated.”

“It is our opinion that the Western societies will not be able to resist the demands of their Muslim, ahem, guests,” Ron Davis announced. “Not only that, but the world’s economy will be severely impacted. The current recession will quickly turn into a depression. The situation in the non-industrial nations will quickly deteriorate. Starvation and famine will run rampant. The semi-industrialized nations of South America and Asia will suffer the least, but they will barely hold together as they have lost their American and European markets for their cheap labor goods.

“Anyway, we have discussed our response to this kind of attack amongst ourselves many times. Because the Angels of the Ship of Lights required long ago that we not interfere with events on Earth we are left with one viable course of action, evacuation.”

“It has come to that hasn’t it,” Apollo asked himself not liking the idea of cramming all of his people back onto the ragtag fleet. Though settling them on one of the two worlds of the Centauri system had its own appeal.

“As soon as we can reasonably do so,” Stevens added, “we will be recalling all our agents, core Colonial Industries employees, certain others, and their families. We’ll also be shipping all of our corporate assets up to the moon base. We will be leaving nothing behind except empty buildings and untended farm fields."

“Won’t that worsen the situation in the US,” Apollo asked. He quickly realized that it would take quite some time to fully evacuate both the Colonial settlers and the EDN personnel, perhaps even several years. “Still, I need to meet with the rest of the Council of the Twelve to discuss this and come up with a response,” Apollo said. “We are no longer under martial law and I can’t ram a decision like this through on my own authority. I’ll also need to contact the Galactica.”

“Captain,” Stevens began. “Please take President Apollo to the Ops Center. He can make arrangements for traveling earthside and for contacting the Galactica.”

Starbuck rose from his chair. “Come with me, Apollo,” he said while walking out of the conference room.

Mark Davis stepped around the table so he could face his brother and Admiral Stevens. “Long ago, when Starbuck first came to us we had a decision to make as to who we would recruit to the EDN. Events have borne out that we have made the right decision. Now, we have another decision to make. In my opinion the West is dying. It has been dying since around when I was born.”

“Yes, Mark,” Ron replied. “We both know your views on this. I still feel it is a shame, especially as a Christian, that we have been forced to be so restrictive.”

“Like Mark said,” Stevens began. “Events have borne out that using the ‘Davis Criteria’ was correct.”

“I don’t think the US will survive this attack,” Mark said. “I would like to obtain as many American historical artifacts as we reasonably can as we evacuate. DC is gone, but we may be able to recover the Declaration and Constitution. They didn’t hit Philly; we can certainly recover the Liberty Bell. I would also like to expand our recruiting drive, using the Criteria, as much as possible. We will need the people if we are to settle on the Centauri worlds.”

“We already have a virtual copy of the Library of Congress,” Ron said.

“Obtaining the larger historical artifacts means exposing the organization,” Stevens interjected. “That violates our non-interference statute.”

“There is one other thing we can do,” Mark said after a moment’s thought. “Since all Western nations and cultures are under attack. We could start recruiting from them before some of them, like Belgium, France, Germany, The Netherlands, and others are overrun by their..Uh…guests. We can’t get many people in a short amount of time, but hopefully we’ll get enough to preserve their languages, cultures, and to copy much of their historical documents.”

Ron Davis and Stevens thought for a moment.

“I can see the value in preserving the other Western Cultures,” Stevens began. “We are essentially preserving the American culture. You are right, though, that we would not be able to recruit more than several hundred from each of the other Western nations in a short time. I also think that to do so we would have to relax the Criteria regarding religion. Many in the other Western nations under attack are Catholic or Orthodox, but being on another world with no contact with Earth eliminates the problem of religious authority that was a concern for us in the beginning. The rest of the Criteria are still as valid as originally intended.”

Ron and Mark both nodded their heads.

“I’ll contact our people on Earth,” Ron said. “We need to get to work as soon as possible. We have two new worlds to settle.”

Out in the hallway Starbuck was leading Apollo to the moon base’s operations center, the same one that he and Dan Foster explored two decades ago.

“I’m glad to see you again, bud,” Starbuck said. “I just wish the circumstances were different.”

“It does seem pretty grim,” Apollo replied. “This is almost like a repeat of the Cylon attack on the Colonies. Evacuating will be hard on the people, especially the older ones. They will not like to leave their homes a second time. The younger ones will not like to leave either. They had just gotten used to living on a planet.”

“Do you think you can get everyone out?”

“I don’t know. Most of the older people have stayed in the Tri-Cities, but many of the younger ones have moved out to try to make their way in the US. The Leos, Librans, and especially the Aquarians, didn’t feel comfortable in the Tri-Cities. Many of the younger ones have left for Chicago or St. Louis.”

“Those are all outer colony people. There weren’t many of them in the Fleet in the first place.”

“True, but I hate losing any of our people if we have to evacuate.” The two stopped just outside the operations center’s entrance.

“Here we are,” Starbuck announced. “Let’s go make your calls.”

The VC-32, a converted Boeing 757, flew in the company of two F-15 Eagles and a KC-135 Tanker above the quiet waters of the North Atlantic Ocean. Onboard, former senator and soon to be former Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton sat in her amidships salon pondering her fate.

Earlier in the day she was meeting with Polish officials in her official capacity as America’s chief diplomat when her military attaché had rushed to her side and whispered into her ear the dreadful news of the day. As her face turned pale under her makeup, a Polish officer informed his president of what happened at nearly the same moment.

She quickly said her goodbyes and returned to her plane, a look of worry which she tried to suppress began to cross her face. There she learned more details as the flight crew prepared for take-off; that the attack was an act of terrorism and the statement from Al-Qaida. Then she was informed that CINC NORAD/NorthCom in Cheyenne Mountain, Colorado, with the support of CINC StratCom, at Offutt AFB, Nebraska, had taken over control of the US military and placed US forces at DEFCON 1. Finally, the President, Vice President, President Pro Temp of the Senate, and the Speaker of the House had likely perished in the explosion in DC. This left her as the highest ranking minister in the US government. With the scope of the disaster CINC NORAD had strongly recommended that she return to the US immediately.

Once airborne her worry increased. She thought of her daughter; whether she was ok or not. Chelsea was working for a New York firm and lived in the city, but was in the middle of preparations for her wedding. She needed to travel out of the city, mostly to Rhinebeck, New York, on occasions. She then thought about soon becoming the president of the United States. The office she sought not too long ago. A flicker of doubt entered her mind. Was she up to the challenge that the Oval Office held during such a crisis as this? Then her thoughts came to the fate of her husband who also lived in New York. The man had betrayed her so many times that her marriage had become a sham. Yet, she didn’t want him to be killed from a fanatic’s bomb. Finally, she offered a prayer to God. She wasn’t a deeply religious woman, yet the magnitude of the disaster befalling her country, and potentially her family, shook her to her core. She prayed for God to forgive her sins and those of her family while asking for His help to recover from the attack.

The door to her suite opened and an Air Force officer stuck his head in.

“We’ll be landing in about an hour, Madam Secretary,” he announced. Mrs. Clinton could hear a man talking loudly just beyond the door.

“That reactionary, Tom Clancy, must be having a conniption,” he said. “He wrote that one book where a terrorist crashed an airliner into the Capital during the State of the Union speech. Well, we’ll be the ones to rebuild the government, not those crazy Tea-Baggers.”

Hillary smiled inwardly at the comment while addressing the officer. “Thank you.” Her calm demeanor hid her worry.

The flight from Warsaw was a long one. Most of the airspace in Europe had been closed except for military flights and hers. Her aircraft had to divert around the radioactive plumes sent up from the bombs in London, Antwerp, Amsterdam, Copenhagen, and Hamburg. While the VC-32 had sufficient range to make the flight, with the diversions, without refueling, an Air Force refueling tanker had rendezvoused with them over the North Atlantic to refuel their accompanying two plane fighter escort. Normally, they would have landed in Ireland to refuel. Their destination was Langley Air Force Base in Virginia, the closest non-damaged Air Force base to the Federal District. Dover AFB was closer, but it was downwind of the Federal District and not suitable. Andrews AFB itself had suffered mild to moderate damage from the blast, but was also in the plume of radioactive dust.

When the aircraft landed at Langley AFB, several dignitaries were waiting for Secretary Clinton. The first was the LAFB base commander, the second was the director of NASA’s Langley Research Center which was co-located at LAFB, the third was the governor of Virginia, and the final one was the senior federal district court judge from the Norfolk Division of the Eastern District of Virginia. The base photographer stood near the group with her camera ready. They were waiting at the bottom of the flight stairs that were rolled up to the main cabin door of the VC-32.

After an Air Force officer stuck his head out of the door to check the stair’s positioning, Secretary Clinton emerged from the converted Boeing aircraft and descended the stairs. At the bottom, the federal judge held out a Bible. Mrs. Clinton placed her left hand on the book and raised her right. She then spoke the oath of office, having memorized it while on her flight from Poland.

“I do solemnly swear that I will faithfully execute the Office of President of the United States, and will to the best of my ability, preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States, so help me God.”

“Congratulations, Madam President,” the governor of Virginia said.

“Let’s get to work,” the new president ordered.

--------------------------------------------------------

Over the Rocky Mountains an EDN F-1 Lightning flew just under the speed of sound at a relative altitude of a thousand feet. In the weapons officer’s seat behind the pilot, the newly appointed commander of the Battlestar Galactica fumed over the length of time it was taking to return to Naper, Nebraska.

“What’s our ETA,” Apollo asked.
“We’ll be down to about an hour,” Starbuck replied from the front seat of the fighter.

Just after their meeting with the Davis’ and Admiral Stevens. Starbuck had taken Apollo to schedule a 727 shuttle flight back to the Earth. During that time NORAD had shut down all air travel in the US. Starbuck immediately offered to personally fly Apollo down in his F-1. The offer was quickly accepted as Apollo had long desired to fly the EDN fighter. Starbuck then took Apollo to be fitted to an EDN pressure suit. An hour later they were winging their way through space back to the Earth.

The first part of the flight was uneventful as they cruised between the Moon and Earth. Starbuck had to concentrate more as they descended over the Pacific Ocean outside of radar coverage then change course towards the US. They made land fall over the Oregon coast and flew nearly due east over Idaho, Wyoming, and into Nebraska. They finally landed in Naper that evening after dark and taxied directly into a Colonial Charters hanger. A Colonial Industries company car took both men to where the Council of the Twelve was waiting.

While still wearing his borrowed flight suit Apollo entered the meeting room and walked to the head of the table. The similarly dressed Starbuck followed but he stood just inside the door until a Colonial Security guard pointed him to a vacant guest chair.

The local members of the Council had met as soon as news of the terrorist attack had reached the Tri-cities. In Apollo’s absence, Sire Uri had led the meeting. They had quickly become frustrated at the lack of information available. During the following hours the Council maintained a vigil by watching the responses to the manmade disasters in the stricken cities on the various television news stations and adding details to the radiation protection procedures emplaced by their hosts.

Lieutenant Hoeing arrived at the meeting. He informed the Council that there was no further news from the EDN. He also told them that Apollo and Starbuck were on their way back to Naper after meeting with Stevens and the Davis brothers.

During Apollo’s flight from the Moon, the TV news reported that Hillary Clinton was sworn in as the new President of the United States and that one of her first actions was to close down all US airspace. She also called out the various National Guard units stationed closest to the stricken cities to supplement the search and rescue and law enforcement agencies responding.

A short time later the whine of an aircraft was heard landing at Naper International Airport. Twenty minutes later a Council Security guard opened the door to the meeting room.

“President Apollo and Captain Starbuck are here,” the guard said while stepping aside letting the two men enter the room.

“President Apollo,” Sire Uri began. “You now have the floor. We would appreciate any update you have regarding our current situation.”

“Thank you, Sire Uri,” Apollo began. “As my attire shows, I got here as fast as circumstances allowed. Thankfully, Captain Starbuck helped to expedite our arrival. Had I waited for a Seven-Twenty-Seven Shuttle, I wouldn’t be here until tomorrow or maybe the day after.” The other members of the Council nodded that they understood and held no anger for Apollo not being their sooner. The leaned forward around the central table eagerly to hear what Apollo had to say.

“The news from Admiral Stevens and the EDN headquarters is, as you already know, Al-Qaida terrorists had set off twenty three nuclear explosives in various Western cities around the globe. Al-Qaida immediately announced responsibility for the atrocity and called for a Jihad against the West.” Apollo laid some papers down on the conference table. “Here is a list of the cities attacked, the probable ground-zeros of the explosions, and the approximate yield of the weapons.”

“I was informed that local EDN organizations helped to enact radiation protection procedures to protect those of our people residing locally in the Tri-Cities,” Apollo went on. “Admiral Stevens briefed me on those procedures and they are acceptable in the short term. He also informed me that given the nature of the attack and the fact that the terrorists were able to acquire the fissionable materials, manufacture the bombs, and smuggle them into their targets in secret that it was highly probable that further attacks were possible. He announced that he and EDN could no longer ensure our safety on Earth.”

Immediately the council began murmuring. Despair began to be heard in their voices.

“This is just like the Holocaust,” Sire Gellar said clearly referring to the destruction of the Colonies.

“How could Al-Qaida get bomb grade fissionable material,” Siress Tinia asked.

“Order, order,” Sire Uri said softly.

“I have unexpected good news and a proposal from Admiral Stevens,” Apollo announced over the murmuring. The other councilors quieted down while Apollo passed out the data papers and photos of the two terraformed worlds in the Alpha Centauri system.

“The EDN has been exploring the closest star system to Earth’s,” Apollo began. “It appears that the 13th Tribe was thinking of the future when they settled on Earth. Thousands of yahrens ago they transformed two lifeless worlds into habitable ones. Admiral Stevens told me that the EDN will be evacuating all of their people on Earth except for those recruiting for them and their support. Everything else is going to one of these worlds. With these recent events I recommend that we do the same.”

“This means uprooting our people a second time,” Sire Montrose said as the murmuring started up again.

“We are no longer in a secure position here on Earth,” Siress Blassie replied.

“Order, order,” Sire Uri again said calmly.

“We should vote our recommendation, but this is not a decision that the Council can impose on the Colonial people,” Apollo said. “I’m calling for a plebiscite of the Colonial people to decide this issue.

For a third time the council erupted with murmuring.

“I second the motion,” Sire Antipas said above the fray.

“Order,” Apollo called this time while waving for the Council to calm itself. He changed topics.

“Also, it is our responsibility to ensure all of our people are safe. I’m ordering Colonial Security to find those of our people that live outside the Tri-city area and inform them of the plebiscite. It may be that some of them were lost in the attack. We need to make sure, for their family’s sake at least.”


20 July 2010

“Personal Log,” Apollo began typing at home on his personal computer a couple weeks later. “It’s done. In the wake of the terrorist nuclear attack on the West three sectons ago, the Council voted for an evacuation to Alpha Centauri. Today, the Council was in session as a plebiscite of the Colonial people was held. A large majority of the voters, seventy three percent voted in agreement to the Council’s recommendation. Yet, since the Council proposed the vote to the people, a small minority of the Colonial people, mostly those living outside the Tri-cities, requested that the evacuation not be mandatory. ‘Let those who want to, go,’ they said.

“Prior to the vote, a quick, unofficial census was taken by Colonial Security to help account for our people and see who was missing. The census also reported on Colonials living outside the Tri-cities. It appears that we have a score or so from all tribes that are unaccounted for. They were out on tour to the cities that were attacked. Most of them were lost in Los Angeles. CS teams accompanied by EDN guides were dispatched to each city where Colonials have been lost. Hopefully, they will find the missing alive. If not, then they are to try and locate their remains, if they still exist and bring them back to the Tri-cities.

“CS has accounted for all the others living out of the Tri-cities; they are mostly Leos, Librans, and Aquarians, plus a smattering of all the other tribes. The Leo and Librans have relocated mainly to the Chicago area; the Librans mostly to Detroit, but a few are elsewhere. All Colonials are required to maintain location records with CS. These three tribes were also the most vocal about having the choice of remaining behind. They are all from the Outer Planets and were not a large part of the Fleet’s people to begin with. I think I understand their motivation. The Tri-cities area is not known for its racial diversity as most Americans would say. So, those three tribes have mostly left, leaving some of their elderly behind, to make connections with their brethren on Earth.

“For now, the Council has contacted the EDN to begin coordination of the evacuation. The crews for the various ships of the Fleet were also contacted. They are scheduled to depart from Naper in a few days on EDN transports to reactivate their ships. Admiral Stevens related that they were reactivating their 13th Tribe ships to aid in the evacuation. Some on the Council were concerned that those ships haven’t flown in thousands of yahrens, but Stevens related that they have been fully refurbished before being relocated to Ceres during the last twenty five yahrens.

Apollo paused again. “Yahrens ago, during the flight from the Colonies, the Council considered what would need to take place should the Fleet encounter an uninhabited, habitable planet and preliminary plans were drawn up for how to settle such a world. We’ve shared this plan with the EDN who has a similar plan. Over the next few days, the Council’s and the EDN’s staffs will reconcile them and come up with a revised evacuation document. Stevens did say that he wanted the Galactica and some EDN escorts ships to be the guardians for the evacuation fleet as it makes it trips between Earth’s solar system and Alpha Centauri. In the mean time, the Council and the END leadership have decided who would settle each planet. It was agreed that the EDN would take the planet with the smaller land percentage, Alpha Centauri B-2 and the Colonials will settle A-3. We’ve named A-3 New Kobol.

“Personally, I wish all of the Colonial people would stay together, but I understand how some want to remain on Earth. Here they have established new homes and created families and reconnected with their brother cultures here on Earth. We will remain in contact with them. If at some future time they wish to relocate to New Kobol then they will be welcome. In the mean time I will pray for their safety on this troubled Earth.”

Chapter 10 – 20 July 2010

Far across the universe, on a slightly arid, but habitable to a human, world a city rose from the landscape next to a river that emptied into a small sea. One building in this city was of a nearly cylindrical shape. The tallest building in the city, its polished black shell reflected the sunlight onto all the buildings around it. Inside that building resided the Imperious Leader of the Cylon Empire. It sat on a throne on top of a pedestal. The pedestal was a scale version of the building it was in. There the Imperious Leader silently monitoring the workings of the Empire.

The Imperious Leader didn’t know it, but it wasn’t alone in his throne room. The ethereal being that had created the mechanical Cylon ‘race,’ who caused them to overthrow their lizard like creators, stood silently before the throne looking up at the leader of his creation.

They have taken the bait and walked into the trap, Count Iblis, as he was known among the Colonials thought to himself while regarding the EDN and Colonial remnant. As they flee the Earth to establish themselves on the Centauri worlds their power will be divided. Soon, my Cylon children will defeat the Colonial remnant and their EDN allies. The Earth will belong exclusively to me again as was promised long ago. So, too will the survivors of the remnant bow down to me as they once did on Kobol

Iblis stretched his awareness across the cosmos. Yes, my Cylon children are well on their way to Earth. The Cylons had established a string of supply outposts from Gamoray, the Cylon outer capital, almost all the way to Earth’s solar system in the wake of the initial pursuit of the Colonial remnant. Cylon supply ships constantly ran circuits of the outposts delivering fuel, spare parts, and other supplies. Now, those bases were supporting a new fleet of baseships that were making their way down the chain of outposts towards Earth and Alpha Centauri.


Langley AFB - Langley Virginia

For the three weeks since the terror attack President Hillary Clinton worked from her temporary headquarters in Langley, Virginia. Not knowing how the bombs were smuggled into the US, and with the advice of her military leaders, she shut down all air travel in the US. She also closed all ports and border crossings. She knew that she couldn’t keep the borders closed indefinitely, but she needed to give the FBI and the US’s other police agencies time to investigate the attacks and begin to track down those responsible.

Closing the borders with Canada and Mexico had additional complications. Those borders were so long and porous that smuggling was a thriving business except in the highly controlled avenues. Clinton, though reluctant because many Democratic voters were Hispanic, agreed with her advisors and called up the National Guard of the Border States to physically close the borders. Regular Army soldiers and Guardsmen from the interior states were assigned to supplement the Border State forces as needed. The National Guard was also activated to help in the disaster response to the stricken cities.
She felt it ironic that she, a Democratic President, was enacting a Republican, really a Tea Party, policy by closing the borders.

The affect of the Guard on the border was immediately felt by the drug and people smugglers on the Mexican border. President Clinton had already fielded several calls from the Mexican President expressing both his sympathy, he had offered to help in the recovery effort which was graciously refused, and his frustration that he could not control the smugglers and drug Mafioso in the border towns. Battles were occurring between the criminals and his, albeit corrupt, Federal Police and Mexican Army. Also, the constant movement of migrants across Mexico had stopped and the border towns were beginning to buckle under the strain of supporting them until the smugglers could get them into the US-. He wanted the border open again as a relief valve for those pent up forces. Clinton expressed her own sympathy, but cited the disaster as more than sufficient reason to keep the borders closed for the time being.

The primary topic on her military advisors’ minds was whether to launch a retaliatory strike of some kind or not. The new president quickly quashed any idea of retaliation until specific targets could be identified. She knew public sentiment was probably growing for a strike against any number of Middle Eastern countries, particularly Saudi Arabia, Iran and Pakistan. She would not act until the investigation showed that one of these countries, or any other, was complicit in the attack. For now, the CIA and the other US intelligence agencies, in cooperation with their international partner where possible, were to track down where the nuclear explosives were manufactured, including how they obtained the fissionable materials for the devices. They were also to cooperate with the FBI and other domestic law enforcement organizations to determine how the devices were smuggled into the US.

Another topic on the new president’s mind was the rebuilding of the Federal Government. She had quickly learned that almost all of Congress and all of the Supreme Court were killed during the attack. She had quickly asked the state governors to appoint new senators. They had mostly arrived during the previous three weeks. A new House of Representatives would wait until after the November elections had taken place as a special election before then was not practical.

In the upcoming elections in November it was already looking like it would be a big win for the Republicans. Now, after the nuclear terrorism, almost all the incumbents were dead in the DC explosion. This left only the challengers alive. Now, she expected the elections to be a huge win for the Republicans and their Tea Party wing in particular. This is where President Clinton was troubled. As a lifelong Democrat, she would be in the same position her husband was in after the Republicans had taken control of Congress in 1994.

Also affecting the election was the state of the economy after the attack. With the destruction of several major cities, all air travel shut down, and the borders closed, at least temporarily, the nation’s economy had taken a dive. President Clinton could see no way out of the coming depression. The US wasn’t alone either. Stock markets worldwide had taken a major hit in the days after the attack. As President Obama and Congress had just about used up the nation’s ability to provide stimulus to the economy in the previous months, she felt that her hands were tied. She could have the Federal Government try to spend the country out of the impending depression, increasing the national debt further. Yet, the new congress was sure to slash spending which would also have negative consequences on the economy. All she knew was that the country, indeed the world, was in for a very bumpy ride for the next decade.
